*A heart touching realisation by HG Dhira Gaura Pr*


Many take vows, many make promises, many want to do good to others, to society, to nation etc. Almost everyone makes the way for their hopes on the New Year eve. People wait for this festive occasion to celebrate in a joyous mood. The New Year marks the end of a wonderful period for some, a difficult time for some, a phase of struggle for some and a bad experience for some but almost for all it gives the rays of hopes for their future.


Recently I had a different experience and realization. It was 27th of December when my sister met with a major car accident. Her brain is severely damaged and she is in a deep coma. Like others she was also preparing for the New Year celebration. Her friend's marriage was scheduled on 2ndJanuary. In a jubilant mood she was going for shopping but who knew that she would not be able to make it. In the midway their jolly mood turned into a frightening nightmare.


What a turning point it is into her life, but she wasn’t prepared because she didn’t had the slightest thought of it in her remotest dreams. After almost a week she is still unconscious. Only Krishna knows her fate, everyone else has to wait.


When I think deep enough, I find a great valuable lesson which is hidden.  There is a very wonderful verse in Padma Purana:


smartavyaḥ satataṁ viṣṇur

vismartavyo na jātucit

sarve vidhi-niṣedhāḥ syur

etayor eva kiṅkarāḥ

 

"Kṛṣṇa is the origin of Lord Viṣṇu. He should always be remembered and never forgotten at any time. All the rules and prohibitions mentioned in the śāstras should be the servants of these two principles."

 

This verse takes us from deep dark well of ignorance & grief and brings us to a place full of light & hope. HH Bhakti Charu Swami Maharaja always says "Always remember Krishna and never forget Him" because we cannot afford to forget Krishna even for a single moment. Who knows if we happen to leave our body at that moment? What if, if that time we are put into a situation where it becomes extremely difficult for us to remember Krishna for the rest of our life? My sister had her seat belt on and just for few minutes she had it off and during that time her car tossed three times. What if it happens to us? All our endeavors, all our sincere practices to please Krishna will demand one more chance to attain the perfection. Bharat Maharaja had to take two extra lifetimes just because he forgot Krishna and remembered his dear Deer at his last moment.


Let us not do that, let us not commit the same mistake again. Let us invest our every single breath in serving and remembering Krishna and his devotees. Let us follow the principle of avyartha kalatvamfrom the core of our heart.


With this humble realization I wish you all a very happy and Krishna Conscious New Year.

Your Servant 
Dhira Gaura Das
