The Greatest Necessity
 
In this age of Kali Yuga people are very spiritually lazy. It is pathetic people will work for little money. People will work so hard for a degree and their education. These things may be required in our lives. And if they are done in a spirit of devotion it is very good for society and you. But when you ask them to come to the satsanga, when you ask them to regularly take the name of God, and associate with the Vaishnavas they don’t have time. They put so many priorities in their life. But the necessity of the soul is neglected. We are so busy trying to maintain this shell, this vehicle of the body, and the vehicles of other bodies but the soul is starving. And the soul of our family members is starving. And the soul of our society members are starving. What are we doing for that? The only nourishment that will satisfy the pain if the soul is to reunite, reconnect it, with the source of all love, Krishna. That is the greatest necessity.
 
In this age of Kali Yuga, we must give up lethargy. We must make our spiritual lives first and foremost, at all costs, and we must inspire our family members to make Krishna first. Because we do not know when death will come. This is love. Love is based on knowledge. In this age of Kali Yuga, people are so much addicted to so many objects of sense enjoyment. They are so greedy. People are so proud, people are so easily angered. People are in terrible illusion. The medicine for this disease of the heart, specifically recommended, is the chanting of the Mahamantra.
 
Audience - Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare. Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama Rama, Hare Hare.
 
Srila Prabhupada, the supreme physician travelled throughout the world with this sacred medicine and enlivened the hearts of millions.  We are eternally grateful to him. Because he gave us the most merciful opportunity to perfect our lives and to help inspire others to perfect their lives.
 
And after Srila Prabhupada tolerated so many difficulties that no one can imagine, just to give us Krishna. We asked him, “what can we do to repay you?” and he gave a simple reply: “Whatever I have given you, give that to others.” He wanted nothing for himself. This is bhagavat dharana.
 
Today is the wonderful day of Sita’s appearance. I would like to describe from the glorious life of this eternal consort of the Lord. The quality of unalloyed devotion that she exhibited to the world…. Unalloyed devotion means to see if Krishna is pleased through our words, through our actions and through our thoughts. That’s our greatest concern in the perfection of life.
 
We know how Sita Devi appeared in Mitula, which is today the holy place of the name Janakpur in the south eastern part of Nepal. Beautiful, beautiful holy place. And there the great king Janak was having the fields ploughed for the performance of a great sacrifice. And as the plough entered into the ground and turned the earth, a beautiful golden case came out of the earth. And when it was opened the most beautiful goddess of fortune herself …the expansion of Srimati Radharani, of Laxmi Devi, Sita, in a little baby form, was born of the earth.
 
Janak took her home. And raised her as his own princess. And she became the life and the soul of everyone in Mitula. Because she was the very embodiment of devotion. Maharaj Janak had the bow of Shiva and he vowed that it would take someone to lift that bow and string it to take the hand of Sita in marriage. She was the most beautiful of all females in all of creation. And everyone was standing in line to take their try but no one could even life that bow. But Lord Sri Ram Chandra, with the blessings of his spiritual master, Vishwamitra Muni, lifted the bow and break it.
 
Even when the supreme Lord comes to this world, He sets the standard that without the guidance and blessings of a bona fide spiritual master, we can make no real progress in our spiritual lives.
 
He was married to Sita Devi, a beautiful wedding took place in Mitula. And then they moved to Ayodhya Dham. And by the arrangement of Kaikeyi Lord Sri Ram was banished to go to the forest. When Sita Devi heard that her beloved Lord Sri Rama was going to live with tree bark on his body as clothes, with matted Hair, laying on the ground in jungles, she wanted to go with him.
 
Lord Rama Himself and all the people of Ayodhya were begging her to stay. “Here you are living in a beautiful palace. You have servants, you have all opulences. Everyone will care for you and love you. You have such a family.”
 
But she did not care for anything. Except her service to the Lord. She was willing to give up anything and everything. Even her life itself. For the service of the Lord. This is the standard of human civilisation. That everyone should be striving for.
 
With tears in his eyes, Lord Rama said to her, “Sita Devi, how could you do this? You have never seen hardship in your life. No more silken sheets and soft beds. You will have to sleep on the hard ground. And there are wolves and jackals and tigers and serpents with venom. And they are lurking everywhere. And there are rakshasas and dacoits that can attack at any moment. And there are mosquitoes that will bite you and suck your blood.
 
“There are so many hardships and dangers. And what will you eat. No longer the fine food cooked by the best chefs of the kingdom. You will have to eat raw roots and herbs that are pulled out of the ground.”
 
But she explained “My Lord, I do not live for these things. I only live to serve you. To serve you and please you, even hell would be heaven to me. But to not have that opportunity, even heaven will be worse than hell.”
 
This is also described in Srimad Bhagvatam. Shloka – 39: 25. – A devotee does not care where he or she may be. A devotee is simply satisfied, serving and pleasing the Lord. And remembering the Lord.
 
Hearing these words, Lord Rama’s heart melted. He could not refuse. And he took her in to the forest. And you know the story how she was kidnapped by Ravana in the (40:03) …..forest.
 And even in the most difficult situation Ravana offered her beautiful, beautiful luxuries in the golden city of Lanka. He offered her all the wealth and the riches and the enjoyments of the world.
 
But she rejected everything. Because she was faithful and chaste to Lord Rama. He threatened to kill her, to tear her body to pieces and to eat her flesh and drink her blood if she did not surrender to him.
 
And he was offering every type of sense enjoyment. But Sita was willing to live or to die but never to give up her faithfulness to her service to the Lord. This is the quality of the pure soul. She is the goddess of fortune. But we all are part and parcel of her. And her devotion is within our heart. What are we willing to give up for the pleasure and service of the Lord? And that is real happiness; that is real joy.
 
She spent practically one year in the tortures of Sri Lanka.  And remained faithful and then there was a great battle. Lord Rama and Lakshman came to Sri Lanka with the help of Sugriva and Hanumana and others. And Ravana was killed. When Sita was brought back, the exile was over and she was put on the throne as a queen of Ayodhya.
 
But one day an insignificant washer man was criticising, “Why this Rama keeps Sita? She spent time with another man.”
 
And Lord Rama had established Ramarajya. That a leader must be above suspicion to have the faith of his citizens and he has to be willing to make any sacrifice for the benefit of the citizens of the world. That is a real leader. So Lord Rama told Lakshman “I must banish Sita into the forest for the rest of her life.”
 
Some people cannot understand this. And there are different levels by which the acaryas have explained. Lord Rama wanted to establish the principle of a king. For the sake of leading an impeccable life of decency, morality and spirituality, a leader is obliged to make any sacrifice to maintain the faith and integrity before his citizens.
 
This is very rare.  In the political arena, all over the world today, there is so much corruption, so much secrecy and everything. And that is the reason the world is in chaos. People have hardly any faith in their leaders. If you want Ramrajya you have to have a king who is a pure devotee of Rama, guiding everyone in pure devotion to Rama. But in a democracy that can never take place. Unless all of you become devotees of the Lord.
 
So Rama approached Lakshman. And he said, “I want to tell Sita that I am going to send her on a nice holiday to the beautiful, beautiful hermitage of Valmiki Muni to spend some time. And she will be very happy to go. But once she arrives in Valmiki Muni’s asrama then you must tell her that she can never return. For the sake of maintaining the confidence of my citizens I must exile her for the rest of her life so she will never see me again.”
 
Lakshman’s heart was broken into millions and millions of pieces to hear this. His life and soul was simply to accommodate and facilitate the wonderful pastimes between Sita and Rama.
 
Lakshman was driving the chariot and Sita and her maidservants were in the back. And as he was driving in to the forest deeper and deeper and they were approaching Valmiki’s asrama, Lakshman was restraining himself at every possible way to keep his emotions within. And at a certain time she could understand his heart. She could understand what was taking place. She was so innocent and so pure and her love was so perfect. She asked Lakshman, “We are going on this nice holiday. Why are you weeping? What is it that is breaking you heart?”
 
And he had no words to say. It was impossible. But somehow with great effort he had to tell her. But he could not. She said, “Is it Lakshman, that I am being exiled for the rest of my life away from my beloved Rama? Is that where you are taking me?”  
 
And Lakshman choked up in weeping, he said, “Yes.”
 
Sita’s heart broke beyond the comprehension of any mortal being. And there was tears of pure love for Rama in her eyes. She spoke words that have brought immortal wisdom to the whole world.
 
She said, “Lord Rama is my life and soul. To please him and to serve him is the only purpose of my life. If me bearing this unthinkable suffering in separation from him for the rest of my life , if this is what pleases him, if this is what I must do to best serve him, then I will gratefully accept this banishment until I leave this world.”
 
This is bhagavat dharma. Whatever we do in life we must know that it is reality if it is done for the pleasure of the Lord and the service of the Lord.
 
Shloka 48: 55 – Krishna declares this to be the peace formula. One who understands that Krishna is the supreme proprietor of everything that exists and that everything is meant for his satisfaction and he is the best well-wishing friend of all, that person can achieve real peace, supreme peace.
 
Sita Devi left when she was pregnant. And it was in the asrama of Valmiki that she gave birth to Luv and Kush. Who were the two most powerful and devoted acaryas, who were the very persons who narrated Sri Ramayana as they had heard from Valmiki Muni.
 
So we should know that this standard of devotion is what we should all be striving for. This standard of devotion is what will bring real happiness and purpose to our life. And that is the purpose of that Krishna consciousness movement: to teach people how to make their lives truly successful and blissful by not longing or aspirin for any of the pleasures of this world. But aspiring for the service of the Lord. And this is the gift that Srila Prabhupada gave to everyone. And he was especially anxious that the people of India take this gift. Because this is your spiritual heritage.
 
Bharatvarsha is the land of Sanatana Dharma, Bhagavat dharma. If you cast this away for any of the facilities anywhere else in the world you are cheating the world and you are the greatest loser. You are throwing away the rare gems of spirituality for the broken glass of material enjoyment which looks shiny but will simply cut you and make you bleed and suffer.
 
To live a pure spiritual life is very simple. Just live purely. No illicit sex, no intoxication, no gambling, no meat eating. Do not further incriminate yourself in karmic bondage. Associate with holy people like this wonderful assembly tonight. Here the glories of the Lord. Enrich your intelligence and your consciousness. Bring your families and most of all, enthusiastically attentively and every day accept with a grateful heart the yuga dharma of the congregational chanting of the Holy Name of Krishna.
 
Audience – Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare. Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama Rama, Hare Hare.
 
Thank you very much.
