THE BENIFIT

Perfection
In this fallen age all perfection of life can easily be achieved by the performance of sankirtana. 
------ SB 11 -5 – 36

Material Burden
Chanting and dancing make one relived of all material burden 
– SPLetter – Hamsadutta, 23 march 1969.

The most Purifying
When ecstasy in singing and dancing ; the time is the most purifying as far as the subtle energies that influence our bodies and minds. 
----HH Bhaktivikas Maharaj – Notes

Manifestation Of Transcendental Symptoms
When a devotee dance is ecstatic love, there are manifestation of symptoms which are called “sattiviak”. Sattvika means that they are from the transcendental platform. They are not symptoms of material emotion; they come from the soul proper.
------Nectar of Devotion – ch – 37 ( page 302)

Offering
The dancing being an offering to the deities.
-----H.H Bhaktivikas Swami Maharaja`s Notes

Destroy the inauspiciousness
“O, King, when the devotees of Lord Krishna dance, their steps crush the inauspiciousness of the earth, their glances destroy the inauspiciousness of the ten direction and their upraised voices, crush away the inauspiciousness in the demigod planets”
– Haribhakti Suddhodaya – 20 -68, By HH Indradymna Swami Maharaj{Just wander-part-4 }

Burn Away Sinful Reactions
Lord Krishna said: A person who is in jubilant spirit. Who feels profound devotional ecstasy while dancing before me; and who manifests different features of bodily expression can burn away all accumulated sinful reactions he has stocked up for many many thousands of years.
----Nectar of Devotion - Page 75

Spontaneous Emotion
About singing and dancing in ecstasy, Srila Bhaktivinod Thakura says “ That it should correspond to the devotees spontaneous emotion” 
---H H Jayapataka swami Maharaj.

Increasing  number  of  Lord  Vishnu`s devotee
“ Victory ! victory ! victory ! behold something wonderful : All the inauspiciousness of the living entities is destroyed , no one is going to hell , Yamaraja has no more work to do and the effects of kali-yuga have ceased to exist. This is because all over the world an increasing number of Lord Vishnu`s devotees are singing His names while dancing and playing musical instruments. “
-----------Nammalvar [3102 BC ] , Divya Prabandha ,Tiruvaymoli-5-2-1. From diary of travelingmonk-vol- 13 , ch-1. By HH Indradymna Swami Maharaj

 It  will  bring all Good fortune:
When we perform in an organized , regular, sincere and serious manner in singing and dancing in the temple ; it will becomes unique and will bring transcendental atmosphere of all good fortune. -- HH Radhanath Swami Maharaj

Spiritual Perspective:
1. To please the Lord.
2. To purify our hearts.
3. To relieve the material burden.
4. To burn away our sinful reactions .
5. To get liberation from birth and death.


​From 
www.harekrishnadance.com​
