Speaker: HH Bhakti Caru Swami
Venue: Mayapur Candrodaya Mandir
Date: 08 March 2016
Occasion: The prize distribution ceremony of Mayapur Sankirtana

Hare Krishna!

Today we are going to celebrate the prize distribution ceremony of Mayapur Sankirtana. This year Mayapur is holding the first place in the world (Devotees: Haribol!) in Srila Prabhupada’s book distribution campaign. And we are very sorry to defeat HH Gopala Krishna Maharaja. (laughter) Yeah no one can defeat Gopala Krishna Maharaja. He won the Marathon. But thats the credit of Mayapur. Mayapur distributes books throughout the year and that is the real book distribution program. Isn’t it Vijay Prabhu? Yeah, The sankirtana minister, book distribution minister Vijay Prabhu is agreeing with me. 

Anyway in Krishna consciousness its always win-win. Even when we lose, its win. In Krishna consciousness there is no loss. And the thing is we are very happy to announce that the Mayapur devotees……how many devotees go out in book distribution? 100 devotees, we have 10 buses, sankirtana buses and each bus takes 10 devotees. So 100 devotees are continuously distributing books throughout the year all over India. May be soon we should start our international book distribution sankirtana party. (Devotees: Haribol!) Ok, Gopala Krishna Maharaja supported that its already doing, happening because Nepal….(audio break)

Book distribution is our most important business. HG Vaisesika Prabhu our very dear God brother who is very very committed to distributing Srila Prabhupada’s books, wrote a book recently, Our Family Business. Our Family Business. Srila Prabhupada wanted that book distribution, Srila Prabhupada mentioned that distributing his books is our main business and Srila Prabhupada also emphatically told us that if you distribute books everything will be taken care of. If you distribute books preaching will continue, if you distribute books devotees will be made, if you distribute books lakshmi will come in, and Srila Prabhupada showed that what one can do by distributing books. Srila Prabhupada arranged this book distribution campaign all over the world and the books, from the book distribution so much lakshmi was coming that half, although half of it was going to Srila Prabhupada’s BBT fund, with the remaining half of the profit they were actually able to maintain the temple. And Srila Prabhupada built Vrindavana temple, Bombay temple and part of Mayapur simply through book distribution.

So its very nice of Vaisesika Prabhu that he reminded us so nicely that that is our real business, that is our family business and this business will go on generation after generation all over the world. And what do we need? What do we actually need? We need to spread the message of Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu. And what can be a better means of spreading the message of Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu than Srila Prabhupada’s books. And as the books go out, devotees will be made.

How many of you became a devotee reading Srila Prabhupada’s books? Please raise your hands. See! You read Prabhupada’s books and we became convinced that this is the goal of life. The purpose of human form of life is to become a devotee of Krishna. That is the ultimate purpose of life. And where do we get that message? We get this message in Srila Prabhupada’s books. And just by reading Srila Prabhupada’s books our life’s mission is fulfilled.

So please take it up very very sincerely, this mission of distributing Srila Prabhupada’s books. And recently we started another, one campaign, thats 50-50 campaign. This is the 50th year and we want everyone to pledge that once a week or every week, one will distribute at least 1 book. And as a result of that we will distribute at least 50 books a year. Is it a very difficult thing to accomplish? 1 book a week! How many weeks are there in one year? 54 weeks. Now when you have other things to do, 4 weeks we are just giving as grace, a vacation. But 50 weeks, 50 books. And we have today 1 million members all over the world. And now if each member of ISKCON distributes 50 books a year, in one year how many books will we distribute? 50 million books! Now just see how easily we can achieve this target! Just 1 book a week which actually will amount to 50 books in a year. If you can’t go out every week, then at least make it a point to distribute 50 books in one year. How many of you would like to do that? And how many of you would like to inspire other devotees to do that? So please make it a point to do that.

So this is the most important business. We want the whole world to be inundated with Krishna consciousness. And this is Srila Prabhupada’s arrangement. Srila Prabhupada wants us to distribute his books and as a result of that our family business will continue and as a result of that our mission will be accomplished. 

Thank you all very much! All glories to Srila Prabhupada!
Gaura premanande Hari Haribol!

vañcha-kalpatarubhyas ca
krpa-sindhubhya eva ca
patitanam pavanebhyo
vaisnavebhyo namo namah

——–
Speaker: HH Gopala Krishna Swami
Venue: Mayapur Candrodaya Mandir
Date: 08 March 2016
Occasion: The prize distribution ceremony of Mayapur Sankirtana

Sankarsana Nitai said, he was questioning, whether I am happy that Mayapur came first. I say Yes! Nobody in the world can defeat Mayapur! (Devotees: Haribol!) Mayapur has the biggest sankirtana army and these devotees are working hard, and distributing books all year. 

So we all know the importance of book distribution. Why did Prabhupada encourage book distribution? Because his spiritual master encouraged it. Why did Bhaktisiddhantaji encourage it? Because Thakura Bhaktivinoda encouraged it. Why did Thakura Bhaktivinoda encourage? Lord Caitanya Mahaprabhu encouraged it. And in the 18th Chapter of the Gita Krishna also says, that one who preaches is My dearmost devotee. 

So Prabhupada encouraged us to distribute books And Prabhupada worked hard to produce these books. Even before going to the West, Prabhupada was in Vrindavana. He had no facilities, old typewriter, staying in the Radha Damodar Temple, he was translating these books, coming by third class compartment to Delhi, getting his books printed and then he would go out and distribute the books himself. Why? Because these books contain transcendental wisdom and Prabhupada’s goal was to save humanity. 

Prabhupada met his spiritual master Bhaktisiddhantaji in Radha Kunda, I believe in 1935 and Bhaktisiddhantaji drew a picture of a mridanga and said, ‘If Krishna gives you facility, print and distribute books!’ What is that service called? Brhad mridanga. The big mridanga. An ordinary mridanga’s voice can be heard to a point. But you can distribute a book in Calcutta and the book can be read in England. We have so many instances, that somebody bought a book in one part of the world, read it in another part of the world, and became a devotee in another part of the world. 

So Prabhupada encouraged book distribution because these books contain transcendental knowledge. And the desire of a devotee is to save humanity, para dukha dukhi, seeing others in distress a devotee also gets distressed and he meditates how can I save the suffering humanity. So Prabhupada laboured hard, all night he would translate books and he encouraged us to do book distribution. And devotees took his request seriously, engaged in this service and pleased Prabhupada.

Prabhupada said ‘as long as book distribution goes on I will never die.’ That means through these books Prabhupada is preaching. And Prabhupada wanted these books distributed. Today Prabhupada’s books have been translated in more than 75 languages of the world. And all over the world people are reading these books and perfecting their lives. 

Narada Muni says in the Bhagavatam Fourth Canto that if you want to please the Lord, three things are necessary

dayaya sarva-bhutesu
 santustya yena kena va
sarvendriyopasantya ca
 tusyaty asu janardanah (SB 4.31.19)

One must be merciful and true mercy is giving people spiritual knowledge. He must have control over his mind and senses and be satisfied in any condition. 

So Prabhupada wanted us to distribute books. Caitanya Mahaprabhu called Nityananda and Haridasa Thakura and said, ‘Go house to house and preach!’ And what was His message, bolo `krishna,’ bhajo krishna, koro krishna-shiksha, Request everyone to chant Hare Krishna, worship Krishna, follow Krishna’s instructions.

So Prabhupada wanted expand book distribution in India also. And Prabhupada said, ‘India has very good scope of book distribution.’ So its very nice that Mayapur temple has taken book distribution as their main activity and nearly 100 brahmacari’s are engaged in book distribution. So you’re rendering very valuable service to the society. Prabhupada encouraged transcendental competition. So there is transcendental competition between temples and Mayapur wins every year. So keep winning every year and that is good inspiration to others. And these books have changed the lives of many of those people. If today we see more and more devotees coming to our temples, if today we see a bigger congregation the main reason is the influence of these books. Everything we need to know is in Prabhupada’s books. We should have faith that we don’t need to read anything, everything we need to know is in Prabhupada’s books. 

And we should be enthusiastic for book distribution. Once I had arranged a big display of Prabhupada’s books in Bombay and after 1 month not many books were sold. So I went to Prabhupada and said ‘Inspite of this heavy promotion we did not sell too many books!’ Prabhupada said, ‘My books are distributed because of the enthusiasm of my disciples.’ So we must be enthusiastic to preach, enthusiastic to serve, enthusiastic to distribute books and if we keep good sadhana, and we remain enthusiastic then Krishna will empower you to distribute these books. Prabhupada said, ‘These books are so powerful that even if you read one sloka thoroughly your life can be perfected. Even if you read one word and understand and mediate on that, you can perfect your life!” 

So we want to encourage devotees to read and study Prabhupada books. Not just distribute books but also study these books. And we want encourage devotees to distribute these books and Prabhupada said, ‘These books will be read for the next 10000 years!’ So you have to do sankirtana for how many more years? 10000 years. After that there will only be adharma.

So thank you very much for distributing books and we want to encourage everyone to get into book distribution. How many of you distribute books on a regular basis? Please raise your hands! Thats all! And the others don’t distribute? Sankirtana, full time or part time? Anybody, amongst all of you, who distributes books? So there are many who don’t distribute books, they did not raise their hand. So do you want the mercy of the Lord or not? (Devotees: Yes. Haribol!) Do you want the mercy of Prabhupada? (Devotees: Yes. Haribol!) Do you want the mercy of acharyas? (Devotees: Yes. Haribol!) Or are you thinking we have lots of mercy already! (laughter) If you want mercy, then engage in the service of preaching! 

So we are very grateful to the devotees of Mayapur, you have worked very hard, and because of this efforts your temple has come first worldwide. (Devotees: Haribol!) So you distribute the around the year. So now Prabhupada said, ‘Our goal should be, double it!’ Do you understand, Double it! If this year you have distributed 1 lakh Gita, then next year distribute 2 lakhs! So this year how many books did Mayapur temple distribute? So this year all the devotees collectively distributed 7 lakh books. (Devotees: Haribol!) So next year your goal should be how much? 14 lakhs to be distributed! So will you distribute 14 lakhs? (Devotees: Haribol!) Will you make an effort? (Devotees: Haribol!) If you make an effort, Prabhupada will give you strength by which you can be successful in this venture. 

Sankirtana yajna ki jaya!
Transcendental book distribution ki jaya!
Gaurapremanade Hari Haribol! 

——–

Speaker: HG Vijay Prabhu
Venue: Mayapur Candrodaya Mandir
Date: 08 March 2016
Occasion: The prize distribution ceremony of Mayapur Sankirtana

Since 2002 throughout the world every year we have been increasing book distribution. And this is mainly because of the leaders in our society, such are Gopala Krishna Maharaja, Jayapataka Maharaja. We have many leaders in our society, guru’s, sannyasi’s. But there are some guru’s and sannyasi’s that are really into book distribution. And they pass it on to their disciples. 

I recently heard that 70% of the book distributors here in Mayapur are disciples of Jayapataka Swami. (Devotees: Haribol!) So he is encouraging them, inspiring them to distribute books and what is the result? They are number 1 in the world. 

And Gopala Krishna Maharaja also, his disciples are very dedicated to book distribution. Why? Because he is inspiring them. 

So its still coming from the top. As we heard Srila Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Thakura, he got his inspiration from Srila Bhaktivinoda Thakura. Srila Prabhupada he got his inspiration to distribute books from his spiritual master Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Thakura. And now leaders around the world are getting their inspiration from Srila Prabhupada. 

Actually our biggest year in book distribution in our ISKCON society was in 1977. Srila Prabhupada was ill and everyone knew that there is nothing that is going to make Srila Prabhupada feel better than book distribution. So there was a full on marathon for months and months. Did18 million books in 1977. We haven’t done that much since then. Why? Because of Srila Prabhupada. 

And now we are having this 50-50! 50 years, 50 books! Actually we having many more devotees in our society than 1 million. But 1 million, you know, really dedicated, householders living outside, and devotees within the temple So if we get 1 million devotees to distribute 50 books, that will be 50 million books! Much, much, much more than we have ever done in the past. So hopefully we will be able to do this quota!

So this book distribution its actually a war on maya. Srila Prabhupada many times he said that, he wrote one letter, he said, ‘Our temples are not places for eating and sleeping but they are bases from where we send out our soldiers to fight against maya! To fight against maya means to drop hundreds and millions of books into the laps of the conditioned souls!’ Just as when during the war time the bombs are falling from the sky like anything. 

So these books are also like bombs and people get them and put them in their homes and they are ticking away. People pick them up and it destroys their ignorance. So generally wars are not very nice. Who like war! Nobody likes war! But this war against maya is a friendly war! Anybody ever heard of a friendly war? (laughs) For this is Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu’s war against maya, its a friendly war. We are going to very nicely, very gently, encouraging people to take Srila Prabhupada’s books and this kills maya. 

I will tell you an interesting story. This is in 1976. One young man he went through the New York bus station, big, big huge bus station. And there was one devotee there distributing books. And this devotee was very nice, very kind, very gentle, very friendly, very personal. And he was speaking to this young man. And then he explained the book, asked for donation. He said, no, its nice but I am not very interested! But he noted that this person is very nice, very nice person. But he didn’t take the book for whatever reason. 

Two years later, he is in Florida at one of the rest areas there where devotees also distribute books. So again he met a devotee and again the devotee was so nice, so personal, so friendly but this time he wanted the book but he didn’t have money. So he said I am sorry, I don’t have any money. But do you have a temple nearby here? The devotee said yes. So he gave him directions were the temple was. And he went to the temple and again he found all the devotees so nice. He didn’t want to leave. So he joined the temple. So he has been a devotee now for 39 years. Never read a book! Never read one line but he was very impressed with the devotees. Why? Because they had absorbed Srila Prabhupada’s books. And they were absorbed in the holy name and the result of that is one develop’s very nice qualities. 

So this is the goal of this Krishna consciousness movement that we develop very nice qualities and then when we go out to distribute books, people will be impressed and they would want to learn more, and want to associate with the devotees, and want to read the books and want to chant the holy name. 

So this is the power of Srila Prabhupada’s books. Books change people’s lives. Just like here in West Bengal, so long it was a Communist country. Why? Because they were distributing these little leaflets about Communism. So many books change people’s lives, the Bible, Darwin’s books. But these books change people’s lives in a very very positive way. So they can become pure. This is the power of Srila Prabhupada’s books. People read these books and they can become purified. They can transcend the material nature.

So I want to thank the devotees here in Mayapur for being such a good example for devotees all around the world by going out and distributing Srila Prabhupada’s books. They are very austere, living in a bus, how many devotees in each bus? 8 or 10 devotees in each bus! Thats austere! But they are doing it year after year after year after year. And Krishna is reciprocating with them. 

So thank you very much! Hare Krishna!

———-

Speaker: HH Bhakti Purusottama Swami
Venue: Mayapur Candrodaya Mandir
Date: 08 March 2016
Occasion: The prize distribution ceremony of Mayapur Sankirtana

So I will not speak much because we are late and we have to distribute awards. So I have very good experience in my life. As one month in new bhakta program, then HH Jayapataka Swami Maharaja he took me on sankirtana. That time he personally was leading sankirtana book distribution. In 78 he was looking after book printing, we had a small press on the basement. That time he personally was distributing books with us and we were distributing one book 1 Re that time it was. We had two broken matador, matador you don’t see nowadays, its history now. That time it was matador. 

At that time I realised that in Bengal to distribute books was so difficult. To get money out of a Bengali pocket, at that time Raja Vidya cost Rs 4, they would die giving out such petty amounts even. 

kali-kalera dharma — krsna-nama-sankirtana
krsna-sakti vina nahe tara pravartana (CC Antya 7.11)

Without the energy of Krishna how it would be possible like this. Within this 25-30 years the way Bengal has changed, mentality of people has changed, its because of books of Srila Prabhupada. (Devotees: Haribol!) What is the proof how Bengal has changed? 78-79 there was a Rathayatra. Guru Maharaja Srila Jayapataka Swami Maharaja on stage, on Rathayatra stage spoke something about Vivekananda, not very bad, some simple things, about his philosophy, something like that. So as soon as he came out of the stage, big group of people led by lady came – Why you spoke like this? On the stage Guru Maharaja had to go and beg apology for that. 

And today by reading Srila Prabhupada the whole Bengal has understood what is problem with that other philosophy, yata mata tata path will not work. sarva dharman parityajya mam ekam saranam vraja (Bg 18.66) 30 years before in Bengal how many people would know this verse! How many people would know sarva dharman parityajya mam ekam saranam vraja. And today you make statistics how many, thousand people would be knowing. Why? Everybody knows this verse now. Why? Because of Srila Prabhupada. Because of Srila Prabhupada’s books. 

Its all mercy of Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu, actually books are already distributed, nimitta-matram bhava savya-sacin (Bg 11.33). Prabhupada has distributed all his books. We just have to go from house to house with the book bag. People are waiting when ISKCON people will come and give me a book. Eagerly they are waiting for this.

So in this way I have seen how Srila Jayapataka Swami Maharaja, since 77-78 started book distribution with 1 Re book. Then we had a marathon, Bhaktyananda Svarupa Maharaja, Yogesvara Prabhu came, then that time we distributed some Hare Krishna yuga and Bhagavata small books, that time we had one, long before, many many years, first in the world, I remember. Then when Harikesa Prabhu came, that time we did not have so many sankirtana devotees. But then he said we have so many namahatta devotees. Then Harikesa Prabhu he encouraged namahatta devotees, I remember, first time. When namahatta devotees get involved with book distribution, since then Mayapur always coming first or second position in whole world. 

Why I am telling this? When Prabhupada started our movement, we had only one preaching – book distribution. When 81 I went with Guru Maharaja round the world travelling, every temple I see including pujari, temple President, GBC, ABC, everybody, they must go book bag. Yes, they must go book bag! Then after that nowadays we have many varieties of preaching programs namahatta, bhakti vrksas, youth forum, chhatra samaja, so many varieties. But I will tell, whatever new varieties of preaching program we might have introduced, until unless we engage our youth forum, bhakti vrksa, namahatta in book distribution, our preaching will not get perfection. The perfection of any kind of preaching program is whether you are engaging them in book distribution or not. 

So when Maharaja asked how many of you are regularly distributing books? Very few raised hand! Then he said, who does it part time? a few. Many still are there they have never distributed books in their life! If you don’t become distribute books in your life how you can become member of Srila Prabhupada’s family? To become member of Prabhupada’s family means you must distribute books. 

I request everybody please try to distribute Srila Prabhupada’s books. In this way you can become a real family member of Srila Prabhupada. 

Jaya Srila Prabhupada ki jaya!
Srila Prabhupada book distribution ki jaya!
Gaurapremanande Hari Haribol! 

———–

Speaker: HH Jayapataka Swami
Venue: Mayapur Candrodaya Mandir
Date: 08 March 2016
Occasion: The prize distribution ceremony of Mayapur Sankirtana

Bhakti Purusottama Maharaja: Now we will hear from HH Jayapataka Swami Maharaja. Actually he is the one who first started this book distribution here and he has been witnessing, the point he started book distribution and where it has reached now and I’ll tell you all this is happening because of his energy. Even if he is in hospital he is encouraging calling everyday the sankirtana buses during marathon period. And because of his dedication, he sacrificed for this book distribution, Srila Prabhupada that Mayapur has reached at this level. So we are very happy to hear from His Holiness now. Hare Krishna! 

HH Jayapataka Swami:
I will speak in very brief. 

Srila Prabhupada said ‘Preaching is the essence. Books are the basis!’ 

Because of my health reason I went to Delhi. So HH Gopala Krishna Maharaja and Mohan Rupa dasa were helping me very nicely. 

Last year Mayapur sankirtana devotees were doing Vrajamandala Parikrama. Mayapur sankirtana devotees came to meet me in Delhi, Sant Nagar temple. Mayapur sankirtana devotees were talking to me, getting blessings and challenged that we will defeat Delhi and become number 1. (laughter) Gopala Krishna Maharaja was neutral, BBT Trustee, he just blessed them. (laughter)

So I saw different devotees, from ashraya group, bhakti vrksa group, namahatta group and other devotees, for last two months they are preparing and pledging how many books they will distribute. I spoke to the Mayapur devotees, and asked that you have any shame! don’t feel shame? So then I told Mayapur devotees, in Delhi 2500 devotees are taking part in marathon in month of December, congregational devotees. But Mayapur only 100 sankirtana devotees! What they can do? So sankirtana devotees may be ati-rathi, maha-rathi, but they are 100. But Delhi 1000’s. 

So if Mayapur devotees, also namahatta devotees, if they take part in book distribution then there is a chance that we can show our face. Whether we can become number 1 or not but we can show our face at least! (laughter) Then Mayapur devotees took part in marathon and because of that by the mercy of Krishna became number 1. (Devotees: Haribol!) 

Devotees can do different kinds of service but each and every devotee irrespective of their service should do book distribution at least in the month of December. In the West its the Christmas marathon and in India its called Gita Jayanti month. In the month of December Krishna spoke Bhagavad Gita to Arjuna. 

Early days we used to distribute Gitar Gana, each book Re 1. I was asking how was the sankirtana, so now sankirtana devotees they don’t talk about sets, they talk about sets, Bhagavatam sets, Caitanya Caritamrta sets, other sets. Srila Prabhupada how much he will be pleased. I saw when the first set came, Prabhupada seeing that set of books he was crying! You are fulfilling the desire of Srila Prabhupada. 

Now in computer ebooks are available. In certain countries if you distribute books like that, and books are visible you may be in prison. But ebook that problem is not there. You can buy ebook from BBT and anywhere and everywhere you can use these books. 

Bhakti Caru Maharaja glorified Vaisesika Prabhu. So book distribution is our family business. We are very happy that congregational devotees are also taking part in book distribution. Srutidharma prabhu sent me a message. Out of India, the top book distribution temple out of India, is Bhaktivedanta Manor, UK. And he said, how they became number 1 because the bhakti vrksa devotees all of them took part in the book distribution marathon in the month of December because of that Bhaktivedanta Manor became number 1 outside of India. 

You are distributing books throughout the year. Other devotees if they distribute also, especially during marathon time, then it will be very nice. Golden jubilee year every devotee should distribute 50 books at least and sankirtana devotees will distribute 1000’s of books. 

So I spoke in brief. I’ll end now. Hare Krishna!

By the way I personally distributed books in Delhi and in Bombay. 

Devotees: Haribol!
