Book distribution stories

Penny: I regularly sold books to the prostitutes in Kings Cross. One day, a girl said to me: "I'd love to get some books! I'll just have to take care of one customer and I'll be able to afford it". She grabbed a passer-by and disappeared down the street. Ten minutes later, she reappeared with $20, and bought the books. And the transvestites! Some of these, big, burly broad-shouldered, hairy-chested men wearing women's clothes, high-heeled shoes and make-up, seemed genuinely attracted to Krsna. I would tell them "Krsna is the all-attractive Supreme Person", and they too would buy books.

What sustained these young devotees, whose average age was no more than twenty?

Yamalarjuna: We knew from Prabhupada's statements in his letters and lectures that book distribution was the most pleasing thing to him. He had said that even if the people buying the book read one line of the Srimad-Bhagavatam, or even just touched these holy books, then their lives would be changed for the better. We were convinced of this, and tried to distribute as many books as possible. I set myself a personal quota of 40 hard-bound books a day. Some devotees tried for more. In all cases, Prabhupada's orders were foremost in our minds. We did it to please him.

Gopinatha Acarya: I was a very introverted, shy person. By material calculation, book distribution was probably the last service that I would have been able to do. But there was so much nectar that came from distributing Prabhupada's books! Book distribution was a transcendental affair, and I tried to dive into it as much as I could, even to the exclusion of so many other opportunities for service. Giving someone a book gave me a great feeling of victory -- victory in fighting the forces of maya. And I knew that the quickest way to catch Krsna's attention was to guide another person to Krsna consciousness. I felt a special reciprocation with Prabhupada when I distributed his books, and this impelled me to go on serving and distributing more and more, for years.

Adrian: Krsna consciousness was a deep experience. I remember each morning at guru-puja, we'd offer our flowers and our obeisances, and I felt that Srila Prabhupada was personally there. I felt very committed to pleasing him. It was natural -- he had manifest himself so tangibly in our lives, and we wanted to reciprocate. How to do it? We knew that book distribution pleased him the most.

Keith: I found my relationship with Srila Prabhupada on the street. It was like Prabhupada was personally present. The closest I ever felt to Prabhupada was while distributing his books. On the street, all unhappiness and distractions seemed far away. I felt so completely satisfied in that service that I often prayed to Prabhupada that I would never stop. Prabhupada was touching, affecting people through his books. Just like I was so affected when I received my first book on the street, I wanted to affect others. I considered myself Prabhupada's instrument, his representative on the street.

Penny: They were very special times. We didn't live luxuriantly; I slept on the floor, and I didn't even own a sari. But I distributed books all day because I loved doing it. My spiritual emotions were very strong. I felt a great sense of urgency -- that the whole world was suffering due to lack of Krsna consciousness. I also felt obligated to Srila Prabhupada for saving me and bringing me to Krsna consciousness, and I fully intended to make book distribution my life and soul.

Each day was an adventure, and afterwards we'd return to the temple, shower, and then dance and chant ecstatically in the temple. It was an unforgettable time. These were undoubtedly the sweetest days of my life.


- From "The Great Transcendental Adventure" by HG Kurma Prabhu

So i can see that there is very good potency at the present moment for spreading this movemetn as was desired by my Guru Maharaja, and I am simple trying my best to carry out this attitude, without any other motivation, surely Krishna will fulfill our desire. So push on with book publication and distribution, and I am very glad that you are now distributing to schools and libaries.


Srila Prabhupada
