Creation:
          Act of producing something that didn’t exist before is called creation.
Creation needs the involvement of a creator. Under his supervision whole process takes place. He has full authority, total knowledge, and has power to destroy the creation. Ex- Potter has full authority to manufacture earthen pots. He maintains his pots for selling and ultimately he has the authority to destroy his pots if required. A person build his house then he maintain his house and when he don’t require it any more he destroys it.
Even for the production of a very small satellite, a panel of scientists and engineers use their brain to manufacture it, maintain it on the orbit and taking it back to the surface of earth. What about all the planets that are floating on the space? How is universe created? Who is behind the creation of universe? Is it Big Bang or Big Brain?
Big Bang theory says: “Two tiny molecule of undefined mass collapsed with each other under undefined pressure and a huge molecular explosion takes place and universe get created ! ! !”
Is this some kind of joke that two tiny molecules created this universe? Does explosion ever created anything. If this is true then my wrist watch is created by an accident between two cars and my house is created by an earthquake in Patna. If it isn’t easy to digest then how we can conclude that a collision created whole universe. Creation involves an expert supervision of creator. Then who created this universe? Is he God?
Before knowing these question we have to understand the significance of god. The Hindi translation of god is ‘’Bhagavan’’. According to Parasara Muni, father of vyas deva (Incarnation of Supreme personality of Godhead who converted all the scriptures in written form), word ‘’Bhagavan’’ consist of two words. ‘’bhaga’’ means opulence namely beauty, fame, wealth, strength, knowledge and renunciation. Word ‘’van’’ means on who possess.   So definition of god is: a person who possess beauty, fame, wealth, strength, knowledge and renunciation in full is god. Lord Krishna is so beautiful that millions of cupid get attracted to him. This is something we can say full of beauty. He is famous as well that even today we sings his glories. We don’t know name of any heroes who acted in cinema 50 years ago but we know Krishna who appeared on planet earth 5000 years ago. This is something we can say as full of fame. There is no comparison of his wealth. His lotus feet are served by Goddess of Fortune Laksmi Devi. Who has hold the Govardhana mountain on the tip of smallest finger of his left hand. This is something we can say full of strength. He delivered Bhagavad-Gita to Arjuna on the battlefield of kurukshetra. This is something we can say Full of Knowledge. And apart from all these qualities he is never attached to them. For instance he usually left Dwarka, most magnificient city of that time, for months. He at once left all the gopis in Vrindavan. This is something we can say full of renunciation. So we can see that Lord Krishna is possessing all the six opulence and in full. That’s why in Brahma samhita, Lord Brahma Glorifies Lord Krishna as:
éçvaraù paramaù kåñëaù
sac-cid-änanda-vigrahaù
anädir ädir govindaù
 sarva-käraëa-käraëam.
Kåñëa who is known as Govinda is the supreme Godhead. He has an eternal blissful spiritual body. He is the origin of all. He has no other origin and he is the prime cause of all causes.
