By Vanamali Pandit Dasa

ISKCON Boston invites everyone to attend what promises to be an
unforgettable event. Srila Prabhupada’s 50th Anniversary Arrival Festival
will take place on Saturday, September 19th through Sunday, September 20th
in Boston, Massachusetts. An array of prestigious guests and entertainment
will be provided throughout the weekend, free of charge to all who take part
in commemorating this most auspicious day.

Several esteemed ISKCON sannyasis will be joining the celebration. They
include: HH Jayadvaita Swami, HH Niranjana Swami, HH Radhanath Swami, HH
Giriraj Swami, HH Bhaktimarga Swami, HH Romapada Swami, HH Trivikrama Swami,
HH Janananda Gowami, HH Candramauli Swami, HH Danavir Goswami and HH Bhakti
Prabhupada-Vrata Damodara Swami. Check out this link to see a full list of
confirmed festival guests.

Many prominent government officials have also been invited to attend,
including Boston Mayor Marty Walsh, Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker, as
well as the Chief Minister of West Bengal state, Mamata Bannerjee and Sovan
Chatterjee, Mayor of Kolkata, West Bengal. The celebration of Srila
Prabhupada’s 50th arrival anniversary has received letters of appreciation
from both, His Excellency Pranab Mukherjee, President of India and His
Excellency Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India.

The first day of festivities in Boston will begin with a three-hour boat
ride that departs from Commonwealth Pier, the very place where Srila
Prabhupada disembarked in 1965. Commemorating Srila Prabhuapda’s bold
journey across the Atlantic aboard the steamship Jaladuta, those attending
the boat festival can expect kirtan, engaging talks and a scenic view of
Boston Harbor, similar to what Srila Prabhupada saw when he arrived fifty
years ago.

After the boat docks at Commonwealth Pier there will be lunch at Boston
Common with non-stop kirtan to surcharge the atmosphere with the
transcendental vibration of Lord Krishna’s holy names. After lunch a
sankirtan procession, carrying Srila Prabhupada on a palanquin, will make
its way to historic Faneuil Hall where a special two-hour program will
include talks from internationally renowned guests and dignitaries.
Saturday’s festivities will conclude with more harinam at Boston Common,
followed by dinner prasadam.

Sunday will be an exciting continuation of the festival. After breakfast at
Boston Common and a talk about Srila Prabhupada and the origins of Ratha
Yatra in America, Boston’s Ratha Yatra festival will take place at Boston
Common. Lunch prasadam will be served on site, and afterwards an impressive
lineup of entertainment will be provided, including traditional Indian
dance, a magic show and a drama performance. The festival will conclude with
a final talk followed by an ecstatic kirtan.

ISKCON Boston has spared little expense in its attempt to reflect the
appreciation and deep spiritual affection all devotees feel towards Srila
Prabhupada. If not for His Divine Grace, countless souls would never have
received the chance to be exposed to Krishna consciousness. Because this
event requires no fee from participants, ISKCON Boston humbly requests that
all who feel the desire to do so, donate toward this event to help offset
some of the expenses. Although the devotees of ISKCON Boston have collected
most of the laxmi needed to put on this festival, a balance of more than
$12,000 remains. For information on how you can donate please go to this
link.

If you plan on attending this once in a lifetime event you can register
here. The first 800 devotees to register will be able to attend the boat
festival at Commonwealth Pier and the first 600 registrants will be eligible
to attend the Faneuil Hall program. (Please Note: The program at Faneuil
Hall is restricted to attendees aged 12 and older. We encouraged parents of
children younger than 12 to make alternate arrangements for childcare during
that time.)




-- 

Hare Krishna
Please accept my humble obeisances.
All glories to Srila Prabhupada.



I hope it reaches you in Good Health.
Your aspiring servant
Dharmendra Krishna Das

