Dear Devotees,
Hare Krishna, dandvats. Please accept my humble obeisances, All glories to Srila Prabhupada, All glories to Sri Guru and Sri Gauranga. Enjoy the bliss… Gauranga, Radhe Radhe, Hari Hari, Hare Krishna.

 
 Saintly Compassion

A man was on the side of the road with a large birdcage. A boy noticed
that the cage was full of birds of many kinds. “Where did you get
those birds?” he asked.

“Oh, all over the place,” the man replied. “I lure them with crumbs,
pretend I’m their friend then when they are close, I net them and
shove them into my cage.”

“And what are you going to do with them now?”

The man grinned, “I’m going to prod them with sticks, and get them
really mad so they fight and kill each other. Those that survive, I
will kill. None will escape.”

The boy looked steadily at the man. What made him do such things? He
looked into the cruel, hard eyes. Then he looked at the birds,
defenceless, without hope.”Can I buy those birds?” the boy asked. The
man hid a smile, aware that he could be on to a good thing if he
played his cards right. “Well,” he said hesitantly, “The cage is
pretty expensive, and I spent a lot of time collecting these birds,
I’ll tell you what I’ll do, I’ll let you have the lot, birds, cage and
all for ten pounds and that jacket you’re wearing.” The boy paused,
ten pounds was all he had, and the jacket was new and very special, in
fact it was his prized possession. Slowly, he took out the ten pounds
and handed it over, then even more slowly he took off his jacket, gave
it one last look then handed that over too.

And then (well, you’ve guessed it) he opened the door and let the birds go free.

The Enemy of the world, Kali, was on the side of life’s road with a
very large cage. The man coming towards him noticed that it was
crammed full of people of every kind, young, old, from every race and
nation. “Where did you get these people?” the man asked.

“Oh, from all over the world,” Kali replied. “I lure them with
drink,drugs, lust, lies, anger, hate, love of money and all manner of
things. I pretend I’m their friend, out to give them a good time, then
when I’ve hooked them, into the cage they go.”
“And what are you going to do with them now?” asked the man. Kali
grinned. “I’m going to prod them, provoke them, get them to hate and
destroy each other; I’ll stir up racial hatred, defiance of law and
order; I’ll make people bored, lonely, dissatisfied, confused and
restless. It’s easy. People will always listen to what I offer them
and(what’s better) blame God for the outcome!”

“And then what?” the man asked.

“Those who do not destroy themselves, I will destroy. None will escape me.”

The man stepped forward. “Can I buy these people from you?” he asked.

Kali snarled, “Yes, but it will cost of your comforts.

That man, none other than Shrila Prabhupada, the Son of God,
sacrificed His own comforts for our release, our freedom from Kali’s
trap. And he gave us the higher taste and entrance into the spiritual
world.

Moral : The door is open, and anyone, whom Kali has deceived and
caged, can be set free; and we can help others also set free.

All glories to Srila Prabhupad. Hare Krishna.
 
"Chant Hare Krishna and be happy" 
हरे कृष्ण हरे कृष्ण कृष्ण कृष्ण हरे हरे || हरे राम हरे राम राम राम हरे हरे||
