How the Hare Krsna Movement Came to Africa
Monday, 08 June 2015 / Published in Articles    / 1,351 views

By HG Brahmananda Dasa

The story of how the Hare Krsna movement came to Africa starts in 1971 in
the United States. I was in Tallahassee, Florida, teaching an experimental
course in Krsna consciousness at the state university, when I received a
letter from my spiritual master, His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami
Prabhupada, instructing me to go immediately to West Pakistan for preaching
work. I had very little money, and I knew the trip to Pakistan would be long
and arduous. However, a disciple takes his spiritual master’s order as his
very life and soul, and I was determined that nothing would stop me.

Africa

The first leg of my journey took me to New York City, where a young
brahmacari assistant joined me; then the two of us flew to London. From
London we went to Paris via hydroplane and rail. In Paris I had a good
opportunity to preach at Dauphine University, the Sorbonne, and to some yoga
groups. After a few days in Paris, we boarded the Orient Express for a
forty-eight-hour train ride to Istanbul, Turkey.

First we crossed the French, Swiss and Italian Alps and then descended onto
the broad plains of Italy, with its many grape and olive farms. We saw
Genoa, Venice and Trieste pass by our windows and then entered Yugoslavia,
with its broad collective farms of peasants. From Belgrade our route took us
to Sophia, Bulgaria, then through northern Greece and on into the European
side of Turkey, where at last we entered Istanbul.

In my compartment on the train during the entire trip was a Turkish lady who
had brought along an ample supply of French bread and cheese. I had prepared
some very nice prasada consisting of upma (farina with butter, peppers and
spices), various vegetables, fried puris (a type of flat bread), and some
delicious sweets. When I offered some to the woman on the first day, she
refused, preferring her bread and cheese. But on the second day she accepted
some and liked it very much. In fact, she ate sumptuously, and I took the
opportunity to talk with her about Krsna consciousness. She was very
favorable and said she would pray to God for our success. From this incident
I realized how important prasada distribution is in spreading Krsna
consciousness. By eating prasada, a person gradually becomes spiritually
purified and receptive to the message of Krsna consciousness.

In Istanbul we met two boys—an American and a Canadian—who were both
intelligent and spiritually inclined. They were going to India and decided
to accompany us to Pakistan. During the two-day train ride to the Turkish
hill-town of Erzurum, the next stop on our journey, I talked constantly to
the two boys about Krsna consciousness. The Canadian was going to India on a
spiritual quest and was writing a journal of his daily thoughts and
experiences. He had titled it “A journey to the East,” after the famous book
by Hermann Hesse, and he was writing into it everything I said about Krsna
consciousness. He was also avidly reading our books. By the time we reached
Erzurum, he had learned all the prayers for offering prasada and was also
chanting the Hare Krsna mantra on japa beads.

The train pulled into Erzurum in the morning, and we all went to a nearby
hotel to wait for the bus to Tabriz, Iran, which was scheduled to leave the
following morning. Since we had a whole day, we decided to go out on
sankirtana (congregational chanting of the Hare Krsna mantra. So we took our
drums, karatalas (hand cymbals) and some pamphlets, went out into the
village square, sat down and started chanting Hare Krsna. A large crowd of
several hundred curious villagers quickly formed. Suddenly my chanting was
interrupted by a tap on the shoulder. When I looked up I saw that we were
surrounded by many policemen and plainclothes detectives. They took us to
the police station and confiscated our passports. (Only later did I learn
that they suspected us of being Christian missionaries. In Turkey, preaching
Christianity is against the law.) They also took all our books and pamphlets
and sent them off to the university for translation. They wouldn’t let us
call the American embassy in Ankara, and worst of all, none of our captors
spoke English.

After several days in jail, we were finally permitted to live outside in our
hotel, although the police kept our passports so we could not leave town. We
then placed a telephone call to the American embassy, but after several days
of “investigating” our case, we had still heard nothing concerning our
release. Finally, we made our way to the university and met a professor
there who had studied in America. He was quite friendly toward us when we
explained our situation. After he gave a favorable report about us to the
police, they decided to let us leave and continue our journey. They still
wanted to keep our books, though, and I had to become very forceful with
them and demand that the books be returned. At last, seven days behind
schedule, we boarded the bus for Tabriz, marveling at how Lord Krsna
protects His devotees.

On the bus to Tabriz, the Canadian and American boys decided to go their own
way. I explained to them that if they were going to India, they should make
it a point to visit Vrndavana. Ninety miles south of Delhi, Vrndavana is the
transcendental abode where Krsna appeared five thousand years ago to exhibit
His extraordinary pastimes. I later found out that the Canadian boy did
indeed go to Vrndavana and stayed with one of our devotees.

We spent one night in Tabriz and then went on to Tehran and Meshed. In
Meshed we got our visas for Afghanistan and boarded a bus which took us
across the border into the city of Herat. From Herat we rode across the
desolate terrain of central Afghanistan until we came to Kandahar. The use
of opium and marijuana was very common there, not only among the local
population, but also among many American and European hippies. The next town
we reached was Kabul, where we made the last connection before entering
Pakistan. After riding through the famous Khyber Pass, an incredible
masterpiece of nature, we finally descended onto the warm plains of
Pakistan. Our bus let us down in Peshawar, and from there we took a train to
Lahore.

I had planned to make Lahore my destination because it is the leading
university city in Pakistan. First I visited the venerable Punjab
University, where I spoke with the chairman of the philosophy and religion
department. He thought Krsna consciousness was a sectarian religion. I
explained to him that far from being a sectarian religion, Krsna
consciousness is the essence of all religion because it is the inseparable
quality of every living entity. just as sweetness is the essential quality
of sugar (there is no such thing as sugar that is not sweet), similarly,
service is the essential quality of every living entity. Everyone is a
servant, from the street sweeper on up to the president. The husband serves
the wife, the wife serves the children, the businessman serves his
customers, and the worker serves his boss. But ultimately everyone is a
servant of God, Krsna, the cause of all causes. How to fully realize this
fact and always act as a servant of God is the science of Krsna
consciousness.

On the Punjab University campus, some students became antagonistic when I
spoke with them, telling me that the Koran was the only book. But I showed
them that one of our books, The Nectar of Devotion, was written by a devotee
who was a high official in the Muslim government. Then they listened
intently, and invited me to speak at a philosophy class. However, as the
days went by, the number of incidents grew. Students accused us of being
spies and called us ill names. Some people once rubbed the tilaka off our
foreheads and warned us not to walk on the streets or we’d be stabbed.

Meanwhile the political situation was becoming more and more critical. The
Pakistani government was whipping up anti-Indian war fever. Newspapers and
radio programs were filled with anti-Indian propaganda. Finally, the local
Hindus told us that Pakistan was no place for us to be, so when the fighting
broke out over in East Pakistan, we reluctantly took a Swissair flight from
Karachi to Bombay, where Srila Prabhupada had just started his Indian
preaching program.

Unknown to me, Srila Prabhupada had read a newspaper story reporting that
four Hare Krsna missionaries from America had been shot and killed by
Pakistani soldiers. (In East Pakistan my brother, Gargamuni Svami, was also
preaching with an assistant.)

When I entered Srila Prabhupada’s room in Bombay to offer him my humble
obeisances, he was relieved to see me well. He rose from his seat, came
forward and embraced me. Although I had been traveling and was dirty and
sweaty, Srila Prabhupada was so relieved to see me unharmed that he embraced
me again and again. From his touch I felt great transcendental ecstasy. I
also felt great shame because I was so unclean. I felt too sinful to be
worthy of this wonderful benediction.

Soon after I arrived in Bombay, Srila Prabhupada decided that I should go to
Africa and preach. None of our men had been there, and he was very pleased
to contemplate that if I went to Africa, we would then be preaching on the
five major continents of the world.

I did not know what to expect in Africa. A few hunting stories by Ernest
Hemingway and some adventure films had led me to believe that Africa was a
place of jungles, wild animals and primitive peoples. I naively thought
there was no electricity in Africa, so I gave my tape recorder away,
gathered together a few essentials-a drum, a pair of karatalas, and a metal
box full of Srila Prabhupada’s books-and prepared myself for the journey.

Soon after my assistant and I boarded the ship for Africa, the seas became
very rough, making the journey difficult. Another problem was that although
there was Indian-style vegetarian food available, it was neither very
palatable nor cooked under especially clean conditions. I became absorbed in
thinking of Srila Prabhupada, who has vividly shown us the meaning of real
devotion: to preach Krsna consciousness without concern for one’s own
well-being. At the advanced age of seventy, he traveled alone aboard a ship
from India to America in 1965. 1 wondered at the difficulty he must have
endured traveling across the Atlantic Ocean during the September hurricane
season. I thought of how he had also traveled with only a metal box full of
books, a pair of karatalas and forty rupees (I had a bit more—$20) and of
how he would cook his plain meals on a little tin stove the captain’s wife
had given him. I remembered how he had wanted to get off the ship and return
to India, but had remained aboard, and how he had even experienced a stroke
during the trip. Who could fail to be inspired by such an example!

Everyone in the world is concerned primarily with his own well-being, but a
self-realized soul—a pure devotee of the Lord—is only concerned with
fulfilling Krsna’s desire. This selflessness is the essence of love. A pure
devotee’s love for Krsna is just like that of a mother who does not hesitate
to run in front of a moving car to save the life of her child. She doesn’t
think, “if I run in front of this car, I may be killed.” No: because of her
love for her child, she will risk her own life. Similarly, one who is Krsna
conscious also has this mentality of total surrender.

Although the sea journey was scheduled to take eight days, only after a
rough voyage of twelve days did the ship finally arrive in the port of
Mombasa on the coast of the east African state of Kenya. Unfortunately, no
one had told us that a first-class return ticket was needed to enter Kenya,
so we failed to meet the immigration requirements. The immigration officials
would not let us disembark, and when the ship’s authorities began talking
about sending us back to India, I became very discouraged. One day passed,
and in the evening of the second day a man approached me and struck up a
conversation. I explained my predicament to him, and he offered to place a
telephone call to our center in Bombay and have them wire me a ticket. I
gave him the $20. Another day passed. Finally, on the fourth day, the ticket
arrived but our Bombay center had sent a third-class ticket instead of the
first-class one we required.

By this time, all the members of the crew as well as the dock workers were
talking about “the two Americans dressed as Indian sadhus [saintly persons]
who could not get off the ship.” People would come to the dock and point to
us sitting on the ship’s deck. They said we would probably have to go all
the way back to India. Finally, the manager of the shipping company agreed
to issue us a first-class ticket, for which we could repay him later. This
satisfied the immigration officials, and on the afternoon of the fourth day
we took our belongings and started walking down the gangplank. Just then the
ship’s whistle tooted, signaling departure within half an hour.

As we came down the gangplank, many dock workers, officials, and other
people crowded around us and started cheering. They were very glad to see
that we were successful, and we were very glad to know that Krsna, the
Supreme Personality of Godhead, who is situated in everyone’s heart, was
taking care of us. I was now sure that Krsna wanted me to preach in Africa.

After disembarking, we just stood on the dock for a while, greatly relieved
after sixteen days on board the ship. We had no money and didn’t know where
to go. Soon an Indian man approached me, and we began conversing. He was
very favorable toward us and toward Krsna consciousness, and he drove us in
his car to a Hindu temple of Lord Siva. Within a few moments we were safely
ensconced in a comfortable room with a fan, beds, a veranda overlooking a
courtyard, and other conveniences.

Each day people would come to see “the American sadhus.” They would offer us
fruit, flowers, money and other necessities. We were reminded of Mrgrari,
the devotee of Narada Muni who had been a hunter by profession. He had led a
very sinful life, but after he became a devotee of Krsna, his life was very
peaceful and pleasant. He did not have to hunt animals; people would bring
him fruits and flowers and many other things so that he could offer ample
prasada to the Lord. Formerly, we had been like Mrgrari—hunters after the
illusory pleasures of intoxication, illicit sex, uncontrolled tongue. But
now, by the grace of Srila Prabhupada, we had become purified of these
things.

During this time, we were preaching exclusively to the Indian nationals in
Africa, and we began to appreciate their unique position among the world’s
people. Because vestiges of the deeply spiritual Vedic culture are still
present in India, the Indian people have respect for a sadhu, they are
charitable and kind, and they are not as mad after sense gratification as
people in the Western countries. They showed us their character by helping
us out in many ways during those difficult early days and by being
enthusiastic to introduce us to their compatriots. They would take us to
various functions, and we would speak on Krsna consciousness. Srila
Prabhupada had not given me any specific instructions on how to preach in
Africa, and somehow or other I concluded that I should preach mainly to the
Indians, just as Prabhupada was doing in India. Remembering the incident in
Erzurum, I was reluctant to take Krsna consciousness to the local people—to
go out into the streets and chant Hare Krsna—although that was my
inclination. I didn’t know how the authorities would react.

After a month and a half in Mombasa, I received an invitation from an Indian
family to go to Nairobi for Janmastami, Lord Krsna’s birthday celebration.
Since Nairobi is three hundred miles inland, we had to take a taxi across
the broad, flat African plains. We stopped frequently along the way to view
the many rhinoceroses, elephants, giraffes and other wildlife. I came to
know how really big Africa is. It contains one-fifth of the world’s land,
being almost as large as Asia and twice as large as South America. The
coastline of Africa is as long as the earth’s diameter at the equator. It is
sealed off from the rest of the world by the foreboding Sahara Desert and
the Atlas Mountains in the north, and its shores are protected by huge
sandbars and impenetrable thickets along the coastlines. From the sea, many
of its rivers, such as the Congo and the Zambezi, are impassable due to the
rapids and other natural barriers. For many years, malaria prevented
outsiders from penetrating inland. For these reasons, the distinct
lifestyles, languages and cultures of the people of Africa had for the most
part remained intact until fairly recently. Due to the vast differences
between each tribal group, there are only nineteen people per square mile in
Africa. Thus Africa contains few real cities. Whenever food was found
wanting, people could easily move to a nearby tract of virgin land that
would provide all their needs.

When we arrived in Nairobi, we held a very successful program at a
Radha-Krsna temple. People were astonished that Americans had taken to Krsna
consciousness, and they appreciated our kirtana and our lectures on
Bhagavad-gita very much. Many wanted to help us in our mission.

Shortly thereafter, three American devotees arrived. They were sent by Srila
Prabhupada, who by this time had reached London. He had fallen ill there,
and having heard that the African climate is very healthful, he desired to
come to Africa to recuperate. First Srila Prabhupada came to Nairobi and
remained one night at the home of a life member with whom we were staying.
(This life member later surrendered at the lotus feet of Srila Prabhupada
and became his initiated disciple.) We then arranged for Prabhupada to stay
in a nice house in Mombasa, in a location I had once described to him as one
of the most wonderful places in the world. When Srila Prabhupada walked into
his spacious, airy room overlooking the aquamarine-colored sea and saw the
cloudless skies, the pleasant sunshine and the white sandy beach fringed
with palm trees, he said, “Yes, Brahmananda, this is one of the most
wonderful places in the world.” Srila Prabhupada quickly recovered his
health with the help of the mild climate, the abundant varieties of fruits
and vegetables, and various rich milk-products. Prabhupada then decided to
return to Nairobi, the capital of the country, and launch the African
preaching campaign from there.

In Nairobi, Srila Prabhupada personally demonstrated how a sannyasi should
preach. We would stay at the homes of various Indians, and although they
provided very comfortable accommodations for us—nice food and sleeping
quarters—Srila Prabhupada would never stay in one home longer than three
days. He would travel from home to home, strictly following the Vedic
injunction that sannyasis should never stay in one place for more than three
days. This rule prevents their becoming attached to bodily comforts as well
as inconveniencing their hosts.

At each residence, Srila Prabhupada would hold intimate talks with the
gentlemen of the house and give darsana (audience) to the family members and
their friends in the afternoons. And in the evenings he would conduct
kirtanas and give lectures. In this way, Srila Prabhupada made good friends
with many prominent Indian people in Nairobi, and they willingly became life
members. Today they continue to take an active interest in the Hare Krsna
movement.

Later, I expanded the life member program. I stayed for one and a half
months in Lusaka, Zambia, moving to a different residence every three days
just as Srila Prabhupada had done. In this way I was able to preach by
example. People could see firsthand how we rose before dawn, took a cold
bath, performed kirtanas and japa, and refrained from intoxication, illicit
sex, meat-eating and gambling. A Vaisnava preaches not only by his words,
but also by his actions. This separates us from so many bogus yoga groups,
whose members may be expert in speaking some speculative philosophy or
presenting yoga in a pleasing way to an audience, but who are not able to
practice in their private lives the austerity necessary for spiritual
realization.

Srila Prabhupada began encouraging me to preach directly to the African
people. “This is our real business in Africa,” he said. So we organized a
program at the University of Nairobi, placed an ad in the newspaper, printed
and displayed some posters, and distributed handbills. The night of Srila
Prabhupada’s lecture, the auditorium was so crowded with African students
that people had to stand outside to look through the doors and windows. At
the end of Srila Prabhupada’s speech the students cheered. Then we had
kirtana, showed a film, and distributed prasada. As a result of this
engagement, we received a lot of favorable publicity.

The next program Prabhupada instituted was preaching to he general public.
The first event was held in a hall situated in a rather shabby area of town.
We went there one evening and just opened the doors and started chanting.
Pretty soon the hall filled up with many curiosity seekers right off the
street. There was a full house when Srila Prabhupada walked in, effulgent in
his bright, silken robes. He quickly passed among the curious people, got up
on stage and started chanting Hare Krsna. Then he spoke about the meaning of
human life. He said that the real aim of human life is to understand that we
are not this body but pure spirit soul, and that our duty is to serve the
Supreme Lord, Sri Krsna. Most of the people could not understand what Srila
Prabhupada said, since they. spoke only Swahili, but they all enjoyed
themselves nevertheless. They were all smiles, as they danced, chanted and
clapped. A few days later, Prabhupada departed for India, having fully
inspired us to carry on the preaching work in Africa.

African devotees

Soon afterward we organized our first outdoor kirtana performance at
Nairobi’s Kamakunji Park. We simply stood under the largest tree there and
started chanting. Soon a large crowd gathered and immediately began chanting
with us. Some were even dancing in a sort of African shuffle step. We had a
battery-powered megaphone, and one young man stepped forward and offered to
translate our lectures into Swahili. Everyone really enjoyed this. We then
distributed a sweet food preparation called bundi that the crowd liked even
more. Every weekend we held this program, and soon we became well known.

Soon one young Kenyan joined our movement. This was considered a great event
by the local Swahili newspaper. It published his photo with shaven head and
tilaka and headlined the story, “When You See These People, Don’t Say
‘Jambo!’ Say ‘Hare Krsna!’ ” (Jambo is the Swahili equivalent of hello.)

By this time we were holding sankirtana processions in the heart of downtown
Nairobi and distributing literature. We rented social halls in various
housing estates for evening programs. We would show a film of the
Ratha-yatra festival in San Francisco, and when the image of Lord Jagannatha
appeared on the screen, all the people would clap and cheer. We purchased a
vehicle with a distinctive roof carrier for storing our literature and
prasada utensils, and we fitted it out as a gaily painted Hare Krsna Safari
van, complete with a tape player and a loudspeaker system. As we drove down
the city streets playing the tape of Srila Prabhupada chanting Hare Krsna,
people would stop and stare at us. Many would start dancing in the streets.
The first time we went into the local villages to distribute prasada, we
prepared the favorite national food of Kenya—maize, meal and cabbage—but the
people were very reluctant to take it. “Don’t give us what we already have
on our tables,” one man called out. “Why don’t you give us some of that
sweet stuff!” Then all the children would chant, “Sweets! Sweets! Sweets!”

Srila Prabhupada returned to Nairobi in January, 1972, to preside at the
World Hare Krsna Festival held at the Nairobi city stadium. The British
Broadcasting Company made a film of the festival and also interviewed Srila
Prabhupada, who publicly initiated the first Kenyan devotee. This time Srila
Prabhupada stayed in our new temple, a spacious house we had purchased in a
residential area not far from the downtown commercial section of Nairobi.

Before returning to India, Srila Prabhupada encouraged us to further expand
our preaching. Thus we made extensive preaching safaris throughout northern
and western Kenya, to neighboring Tanzania and Zambia, and even down into
Salisbury, Rhodesia.

In each of the towns and in the surrounding villages, we held a full program
of kirtana, film shows, lectures, life-membership enrollments, and
literature and prasada distribution. Then we held sankirtana processions
down the main street. Finally we called upon prominent citizens to subsidize
the cost of complete sets of Srila Prabhupada’s books and five-year
subscriptions to BACK TO GODHEAD magazine, which we then donated in their
names to all the towns’ libraries, schools and colleges. These institutions
were extremely grateful to receive a gift of books from abroad. Large
quantities of magazines were also subsidized, which we then distributed to
the people at token cost.

In Lusaka, Zambia, a group of wealthy Indian life members became very
enthusiastic about our preaching to the local people. Anxious to
participate, they all agreed to come to a program we were holding that night
at a social hall in a low-income area of town. In the evening they all
arrived at the hall in a caravan of large Mercedes cars. As soon as they
entered the hall, a large crowd of children gathered outside. They were
excited from the afternoon, when we had driven through the area with our
loudspeakers blaring a bouncy Hare Krsna kirtana. Hundreds of kids had run
after our truck, and we had thrown leaflets to them announcing the evening
program. Now they were singing Hare Krsna outside the hall at the top of
their lungs. So we opened the doors and they flooded in—an ecstatic swirling
mass of beautiful, black kids. Once they were inside, we started a
tumultuous kirtana. The life members had never expected anything like this.
They had come wearing their finest clothes and gold jewelry. I invited them
to come up and take refuge on the stage, and they did so, sitting down very
stiffly and chanting in their usual sedate way while trying not to see what
was happening all around them. The kirtana was so ecstatic that I jumped off
the stage and danced with the kids until we were all exhausted. Then we
showed the Ratha-yatra film and sent them home with prasada. The members
later agreed that from then on we could do all the preaching ourselves, and
they would just help out with contributions.

When we returned to Nairobi, practically every Kenyan greeted us with “Hare
Krsna” or “Hare Rama.” Even the shoeshine boys were chanting one of our Hare
Krsna tunes. I was reminded of Vrndavana, India, the transcendental village
where Lord Krsna appeared on earth, 5,000 years ago. There all the residents
chant Hare Krsna and greet each other by vibrating the holy name. Previously
I had written a letter to Srila Prabhupada expressing how much I appreciated
Vrndavana, and he had replied that this was very good and that I should try
to spread the Vrndavana spirit to Africa. Now it appeared to me that, by his
grace, Nairobi had become a black Vrndavana.

In this way, Lord Caitanya Mahaprabhu’s Hare Krsna movement came to
Africa—not by our efforts, but by Srila Prabhupada’s. We are simply
following what he has told us to do, and what he has done himself.

Excerpted from; Back to Godhead Magazine Vol. 10, No. 12




-- 

Hare Krishna
Please accept my humble obeisances.
All glories to Srila Prabhupada.



I hope it reaches you in Good Health.
Your aspiring servant
Dharmendra Krishna Das


For so many life times you are trying to enjoy and you can see that you are still not satisfied. Just offer this life to Krishna and if at the end of this life nothing happens, what is the loss?  It is just one life time out of so many.
