Distribution

“Please print as many books as possible, this is my real pleasure. By printing these books of our Krsna Conscious philosophy in so many different languages we can actually inject our movement into the masses of persons all over the world, especially there in the western countries and we can literally turn whole nations into Krsna Conscious nations.”

(Letter to: Hrdayananda – Bombay 21 December, 1974)

Most important activity

Distribution of books and magazines is our most important activity. Without books, our preaching has no solid basis.
“transcendental plot”

If you simply push on this one activity of distributing my books, your all success will be there. I have hatched this “transcendental plot” for getting money by selling my books, and if we stick only to this plan and use our brain for selling books, there will easily be sufficient money.
Our book distribution program is most important work.

Our book distribution program is most important work. Anyone reading our KRSNA book, TLC, NOD, and Bhagavad-gita As It Is, is sure to become a Krishna Conscious person. Therefore somehow or other we must push on this literature distribution program, either through schools, colleges, libraries, life membership or ordinary sales.
This is my request.

So kindly help me. This is my request. Print as many books in as many languages and distribute throughout the whole world. Then Krsna consciousness movement will automatically increase.
Very vigorously try for this book distribution

I especially want that my books and literatures should be distributed profusely, but so far I understand this is not being done very perfectly. So I want that you all my students shall very vigorously try for this book distribution. Do not hesitate to use your American and European brains to increase, that is Krishna’s special gift to you, now use it. Any activity which will please Krishna should be accepted favorably, this is our guiding principle.



So i can see that there is very good potency at the present moment for spreading this movemetn as was desired by my Guru Maharaja, and I am simple trying my best to carry out this attitude, without any other motivation, surely Krishna will fulfill our desire. So push on with book publication and distribution, and I am very glad that you are now distributing to schools and libaries.


Srila Prabhupada
