Los Angeles SD Newsletter Vol. 4, Issue 2

Posted on Dec 7, 2015 in Marathon Message
Giriraj Swami
LET US ALL DO WHATEVER WE CAN
Letter from H.H. Giriraj Swami
Dear Devotees, Please accept my humble obeisances. All glories to Srila Prabhupada.
Recent events (Sep. 11th) reminded me of the following statement by Srila Prabhupada:
"Human society, at the present moment, is not in the darkness of oblivion. It has made rapid progress in the field of material comforts, education and economic development throughout the entire world. But there is a pinprick somewhere in the social body at large, and therefore there are large-scale quarrels, even over less important issues. There is need of a clue as to how humanity can become one in peace, friendship and prosperity with a common cause. Srimad-Bhagavatam will fill this need…" (SB, Preface)
In the Preface to Srimad-Bhagavatam, Srila Prabhupada discusses the need for a common cause to unite all people of the world. The common cause in the Absolute Truth, the source of all that be, the Supreme Person—known to us as Krishna.
"Therefore there is a great need for disseminating the message of Srimad-Bhagavatam all over the world to do all the supermost good, as well as to bring about the desired peace in the world. We are confident that if the transcendental message is received only by the leading men of the world, certainly there will be a change of heart, and naturally the people in general will follow. There will be a radical change in the atmosphere of the world."
Let us all do whatever we can, with whatever intelligence and resources we have, for the sake of the cause—the cause of Krishna consciousness.
"By broadcasting the holy name and fame of the Supreme Lord, the polluted atmosphere of the world will change, and as a result of propagating transcendental literatures like Srimad-Bhagavatam, people will become sane in their transactions."
Thank you. Hare Krishna.



So i can see that there is very good potency at the present moment for spreading this movemetn as was desired by my Guru Maharaja, and I am simple trying my best to carry out this attitude, without any other motivation, surely Krishna will fulfill our desire. So push on with book publication and distribution, and I am very glad that you are now distributing to schools and libaries.


Srila Prabhupada
