> Sri Vyasa Puja address by His Holiness Bhakti Charu Swami Maharaja given on 17th September 2014 at Sri Sri Radha Radhanath Temple, Durban, South Africa 

Downstairs at Srila Prabhupada’s quarters I was making the bhoga offering to Prabhupada and was feeling so happy and relaxed. In spiritual life, service is the most important; it is through service that we remain safely situated in our spiritual lives. Through our service we experience joy. Service is the most important thing. Service is our constitutional activity and our constitutional position is eternal servants therefore through service we feel completely relaxed, safe and secures. Since I assumed the responsibility of being a spiritual master, I have tried to avoid Vyasa Puja. Vyasa puja should be grand as it is the worship of Vyasadeva. I am the via medium to Vyasadeva and it becomes troublesome as it is my responsibility to pass everything to you. My responsibility or position is to be a transparent via media. Nothing should stop that. If anything stops then it becomes translucent and if nothing goes through then it becomes opaque. Our position is like that of a lens meant to magnify just like a telescope. Between the eye and a distant object. You look through the telescope through a series of lenses making distant objects closer, that is the role of the spiritual master. This is a special kind of arrangement that enhances the vision. Another example in this context would be glasses. The glasses enhance my vision. If I take off my glasses I cannot see you all but if I put them back on I can see clearly. The role of the spiritual master should be very clear about his link with his spiritual master that is Srila Prabhupada. In our case it is clear that Srila Prabhupada is our spiritual master. When you see through the context of the institution Srila Prabhupada is THE spiritual master of everyone, that concept is becoming more and clearer. 
> Mistakes of the early days were made by seniors who assumed the role of the spiritual master due to the lack of experience. These grievous mistakes were made and we learnt a big lesson and are still learning. Srila Prabhupada’s position is now clear. These mistakes caused massive damage to individuals, collectively and the institution. The miostake was made because Srila Prabhupada’s position was not made clear. With the passing of time it will be clear. The book written by Ravindra Swarupa prabhu is there and this is not the end only the beginning and it’s giving us the concept and the lead. If you claim but all Srila Prabhupada’s quotes are not there then get all the quotes and put it into pratice is your own life. In just a position paper you cannot expect everything to be there. A time will come when we will all recognise its like Jesus in Christianity, Muhammed in Islam, ISKCON is Srila Prabhupada’s sampradaya and we should not be afraid or shy to establish Srila Prabhupada in that position. The more and more we establish Srila Prabhupada’s position the more secure ISKCON will be.
> Srila Prabhupada’s books are the basis , temples are the units and the devotees are the warriors to fight the battle against Kali. Srila Prabhupada has equipped us with all the arms and weapons to fight Kali and we will make his life so hellish that he will have to hide in some remote cave or under water. Military strength is derived from two aspects: 
> 1. Expert guidance of the general and
> 2. Loyalty of the servants.
> This battle against Kali can be won by this wonderful arrangement of Srila Prabhupada for Lors Caitanya’s mission. We are so fortunate to be here. We must reconfirm our dedication to Srila Prabhupada. This time it is not only to remember but to recommit to Srila Prabhupada’s lotus feet through a grand fire sacrifice reconfirming our commitment to Srila Prabhupada. Its not just a ceremony of external celebration but an internal commitment. When I was in London someone asked me why do British nationalists go to the Middle East to fight? They are all educated individuals so why would they do this irrational indulgence? My response was that youth want excitement and they do not see the cause. Excitement is what is drawing them there. If we can create that excitement in ISKCON can you imagine how many will join? In the early days it was exciting to have joined the Hare Krsna movement, to shave your head, to chant Hare Krsna, to follow the four regulative principles. This was unusual those days and that was what made it so exciting. We must rekindle that excitement again in a positive way We will fight with the weapon of love. Caitanya Mahaprabhu brought Nama prema, the holy name and distributed love. In this incarnation of the Lord there was no so called weapon as in the other incarnations. Lord Caitanys Mahaprabhu had a very special weapon and what was that weapon? Its love. If you want to kill me, go ahead I will still love you. Krishna Consciousness will destroy the violent atmosphere of this age. Caitanya Mahaprabhu said to be more tolerant than a tree, cut the tress and the tree will still give shade and even some fruits. We see you as a part and parcel of the Supreme Personality of Godhead therefore you are my brothers and sisters and the common father is in the centre and we are related to each other especially in ISKCON. First charity begins at home, first demonstrate our love. What is the hindrance to love? Hatred and hatred is demonstrated through quarrel and conflict. Kali is influencing and working through quarrel and conflict. Avoid that through love. Tell them I love you no matter what you are doing. Proper demonstration to Lord Caitanya’s mission trinadapi sunicena reminds us what our business is. We have nothing to gain we prepared to loose everything because we know what is the cause we fighting for. Establish Krishna Consciousness all over the world. Thank you very much. All glories to Srila Prabhupada!
