Personal letter to the devotees from Visvambhara Prabhu – ISKCON UK National Book Distribution Coordinator

Dear devotees,

Please accept my humble obeisances. All glories to Srila Prabhupada.

I hope this email will find you all in good health and spirits.

Krishna is looking after each of us year after year. Even if we do not serve Him, His love is unconditional. What to speak if we do something in service to Him?

When I came to UK in 1984 I had nothing and I could not even speak a word of English. I could not even go back to my country because my travel money was stolen in Soho Street Temple. I was stuck, so I had no choice but to surrender to sankirtan book distribution, and the street has been my school for learning English.

Now I have a roof over my head, prasadam on the table, a nice family, nice devotee association, and a blissful service, all by the mercy of the Lord. I feel very grateful to be receiving so much in abundance, and therefore every day I go out to distribute a few books, and this is my thank you for everything the Lord has provided and is continuing to provide for me.

Many devotees feel the same, especially at this time of the year, expressing their gratitude by going out of the temple and their respective houses. Our desire is to share and distribute the good fortune we have received with the sleeping souls.

This is the essence of Krishna Consciousness, receiving and sharing. For a cow who gives milk, her milk bag is constantly filled up; but if she stops giving milk, then her milk bag dries up. Similarly, when we share Krishna consciousness, we become more and more happy in Krishna consciousness; but when we stop sharing, then our consciousness dries up and becomes stagnant.

December Marathon means minimising bodily comforts and increasing our service to Srila Prabhupada, or in other words, doing a little more than what we usually do. We may feel some cold externally, but internally we are on fire. Let us be fired up to distribute the mercy to as many people as possible. Let us work together in this blissful service, which has the power to push away the misfortune in people’s lives and to revive their good fortune in the form of compassion, mercy, happiness, unity, gratitude, bliss and above all love for Krishna, and for everything and everyone He
has created.

Remember that the goal of book distribution is to make devotees. We should not be like Alexander the Great that we conquer the person in the street for one day only and then let them go back to their prison environment. We want to cultivate them and deliver them forever from the prison of this material world. Please encourage your customers to read the book and to keep in contact with devotees. You can help them to do this by collecting names and email addresses (or phone numbers) from as many of them as possible.

The UK National Marathon starts officially on Thursday 1st December and finishes on Saturday 24th. Some temples are starting a few days earlier as a special offering to Srila Prabhupada for ISKCON 50th, which is very nice.

Bhaktivedanta Manor has set a target of 200K, thatwill put a huge smile on Srila Prabhupada’s face.

I hope you have a blissful time in distributing Srila Prabhupada’s books and I pray that your health and spirits will be in harmony with your soul.

I remain your humble servant,

Visvambhara das ( National Book Distribution Coordinator for UK)


So i can see that there is very good potency at the present moment for spreading this movemetn as was desired by my Guru Maharaja, and I am simple trying my best to carry out this attitude, without any other motivation, surely Krishna will fulfill our desire. So push on with book publication and distribution, and I am very glad that you are now distributing to schools and libaries.


Srila Prabhupada
