Predictions Revealed in the Sastras:

In the Bhavisya Purana, Pratisarga Chapter 20 verses 71-73; it is mentioned: "Lord Jagannath, the Supreme Lord Sri Hari Himself, spoke these attractive words for the welfare of all: "The mlecchas who are born from mixed countries ruled by descendants of Kasyapa (demons) and the sudras will become brahmanas by initiation. They will wear sikhas and brahmana threads and will become well versed in the uncontaminated fruit of the Vedas (Srimad Bhagavatam). They will worship Me by the Yajna prescribed by the Lord of Lords, the protector of Sacidevi, Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu." 

Forty-six years before the beginning of Kali Yuga, Vishnuchitta, one of the twelve great Vaisnava saints of the Sri Ramanuja Sampradaya predicted: "There will come a race which will tread the Earth with raised hands and vertical tilaka on their foreheads, who will chant the names of Hari; this will destroy the influence of Kali." (Divya-prabandha 1.10). This prediction was indeed fulfilled by none other than Srila Prabhupada.

Furthermore, Nammalvar (3102 BC), another one of the twelve great Vaisnava saints of the Sri Ramanuja Sampradaya proclaimed: "Victory! Victory! Victory! I behold something wonderful: all the inauspiciousness of the living entities is destroyed, no one is going to hell, Yamaraja has no more work to do and the effects of Kali-yuga have ceased to exist. This is because all over the world an increasing number of Lord Visnu's devotees are singing His names while dancing and playing musical instruments."

(Divya-prabandha, Tiruvaymoli 5.2.1) By the mercy of Srila Prabhupada today then Lord's name is sung in every part of the world. 

Sripada Ramanuja predicted: "The pure devotion to Sri Hari devoid of karma and jnana will grow and grow like a banyan tree covering the whole world,3 teaching everyone who takes shelter." (Prapannamrta tarpana, last chapter). It is interesting to note in this connection how Srila Prabhupada's ISKCON is preaching 'jnana karmady anavrtam' to 'jare dekho tare' in every town and village!

Sripada Madhvacharya predicted: "The real knowledge of the difference between jiva and Sri Hari and the service of Sri Hari will spread all over the world very shortly." (Anu Madhva Vijaya - last chapter). Indeed this transcendental knowledge was spread all over the world by none other than Srila Prabhupada coming in the line of Srila Madhvacarya.  

In Bhagavat Mahatmya (Uttara khanda of Padma Purana) Bhakti personified says to Narada Muni: "idam sthanam parityajya videsham ganyate maya" - "I will leave this country, India, and go abroad." By the mercy of Srila Prabhupada devotional service is now performed in all over the world. 

It was certainly none other than Srila Prabhupada who fulfilled these predictions of the scriptures and the acaryas by spreading the teachings of the Vedas throughout the world.


​Transcription from a Lecture by HH Bhakti Charu Swami Maharaja​

Statement by Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu:


 
In Sri Caitanya Mangala, Srila Locana das Thakura; the future appearance of a great senapati

bhakta (General of the devotees), who would preach Krishna consciousness all over the world is

predicted by Lord Caitanya Himself:


 
yadi papi chadi dharma dure dese yaya mora senapati-bhakta yaibe tathaya-

"Taking the sharp sword of the congregational chanting of the Hare Krsna

mantra, (nama-sankirtana) I will root out & destroy the demoniac mentality

in the hearts of all the conditioned souls. If some sinful people escape

and giving up religious principles go to far off countries, then my

Senapati Bhakta will come at that time to give them Krsna Consciousness. "



 
In the Caitanya-caritamrta, Lord Caitanya again predicts: "Prthivite ache


yadi nagaradi grama, sarvatra pracara hoibe more nama"

 ("My holy name will be chanted in every
town and village"). 



 
In Sri Caitanya Bhagavata, Antya 4.126, Lord Caitanya personally said:

'Prthivi-parjanta jata ache desa grama, sarvatra pracara hoibe more nama' -

"My holy name will be preached in all the countries and towns that exist

throughout the world."


Srila Prabhupada's movement is fulfilling that prediction by his mercy and unprecedented accomplishments.


Prediction by Srila Bhaktivinode Thakura:


 
The statement in the Sajjana-tosani of Srila Bhaktivinoda Thakura,

regarding the future appearance of a great personality who would come to

the west and preach the message of Lord Gauranga and fulfill the prediction

of Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu. The following is a translation from the journal

Vaisnava Tosani: "Sriman Mahaprabhu did not descend with His associates to deliver a certain

number of human beings in the land of India, but rather

His purpose was to deliver and uplift all living beings in all countries of

the world by preaching the eternal religion of all souls. There are many

kinds of religion in the world, and among all of them the highest

development of religion is the congregational chanting of the Supreme

Lord's Divine Names. Of this there is no doubt. Alas! When will that day

come when all greatly fortunate souls in countries such as England, France,

Russia, Prussia and America will take up banners, kettle drums, mrdangas and karatalas and thus

cause the ecstatic waves of Hari Nama Kirtan and the singing of Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu's holy

name to rise in the streets of their towns and cities? O when will that day come, when pure and

transcendental Krishna prema (love of God) will be the only religion of all souls and all tiny

sectarian religions will meet in the unlimited and universal religion of devotional service to Krishna,

as rivers merge into the great ocean? O when will that day come?"



In summary Srila Bhaktivinoda Thakura made three predictions concerning a

person and a phenomena. 



The first prediction: "A personality will soon

appear," wrote Bhaktivinoda Thakura, "and he will travel all over the world

to spread the teachings of Lord Caitanya." 



The second prediction: "Very

soon the chanting of Harinama sankirtana will be spread all over the world.

Oh, when will that day come when people from America, England, France,

Germany, Russia will take up karatals and mrdangas and chant Hare Krishna

in their towns?" 



The third prediction: "When will that day come when the

fair-skinned foreigners will come to Sri Mayapur-dhama and join with the

Bengali Vaisnavas to chant, Jaya Sacinandana, Jaya Sacinandana. When will that day be?" 


Excerpt From Transcribed Lectures of HH Bhakti Charu Swami Maharaja
