ent from my iPhone

Dear devotees,

Please accept my most respectful obeisances. All glories to Srila Prabhupada and Guru Maharaja.

Guru Maharaja is launching his book, “Ocean of Mercy”, on 27th July in Los Angeles, so I thought of sharing some of Guru Maharaja’s words on this book while reading from his memoirs at the Bhaktivedanta Manor last year, as well as an excerpt from the book.

Guru Maharaja:

“I was very fortunate to come across Srila Prabhupada practically in the last year of Srila Prabhupada’s presence on this planet, but I had the inconceivable good fortune of coming very close to Srila Prabhupada and being with him practically all the time for about 9 months. I naturally considered that to be my inconceivable good fortune and the sheer causeless mercy of Srila Prabhupada, but I never really thought that those interactions that I had with Srila Prabhupada was that important. They were very important to me but, in simple words, I never really thought of writing those memories down. Recently, however, many of my god-brothers had been requesting me to write them, especially when I started to get a lot of pressure from some of my senior god-brothers. Their point was that, “The time that you had with Srila Prabhupada is very important and it needs to be recorded and left behind for the posterity.” Often I spoke about my memories with Srila Prabhupada and now finally I am presenting it in a book form.

When I started writing, I actually started from going back to India from the West and then how I started to search for a guru in India, the experiences and then finally meeting Srila Prabhupada. But when my editor went through it, he requested that I also speak about my own life. So I did that. Incidentally, the editor is the younger brother of Tamal Krishna Maharaja. So Tamal Krishna Maharaja’s younger brother is the head of the Department of English at Iowa University. He was editing and he is the one who suggested that I write about myself, so that is the first chapter. This one chapter kind of describes what I had gone through my whole life. In a way I feel bad to speak about myself, because the book is meant to speak about Srila Prabhupada, not myself.

Also, another consideration is that a sannyasi’s past is dead. That life is another person and after sannyasa, it is a kind of a rebirth. When taking sannyasa you go through the ceremony – this of course doesn’t happen in ISKCON, Srila Prabhupada didn’t really introduce all those elaborate and complicated aspects of these ceremonies – but one ceremony before the sannyasa is the ceremony of dying. So the understanding is that the sannyasa life is a new life. We had so many lives before, but do we care about those lives? So in a way I also felt that that really didn’t matter so much, but since he insisted that I wrote a few pages I complied.”

Here is an excerpt from one of those first chapters of the book, revealing Guru Maharaja’s state of mind before the climax of encountering Srila Prabhupada in his life:

“One day, when we were all together, Chuck asked me whether people in India really died of starvation. In fact, most of the people I met in Europe, even my friends thought that India was extremely poor and that its people were starving and homeless having been maimed by Indian culture’s degraded mentality and superstitions. I replied that although I had been born and raised in India I had never seen a single person dying of starvation. When the others told me what they had heard and read about India’s poverty stricken condition, I cited my country’s glories. “Why had Columbus ventured so far in search of India,” I asked. “Why had it been considered the crown jewel of the British empire?” Then Chuck asked, “Then why India is so poor?” “India is not interested in material prosperity,” I countered, “but in developing her spiritual riches because material wealth was not her first priority. Foreign invaders found little resistance and stole all they could.” I knew there was some truth to my friends’ claims, but I could not tolerate India’s humiliation and I protested vehemently. When I tried to mount my case, however, I became painfully aware of how ignorant I was about the place of my birth. My patriotism, I saw, was only a sentimental attachment. Although I had a deep connection to India as my motherland, I was unaware of her actual glories and traditions. The decision and my desire to establish India’s greatness led me to probe deeper into my country’s spiritual culture. I already knew the importance of spiritual life and was aware of the existence of the soul, but now I felt compelled to learn life’s actual nature, purpose and ultimate goal.”

How did Guru Maharaja thread his own unique path as a sincere seeker of the Absolute Truth? How did his thirst for God get quenched when the Ocean of Mercy was revealed to him by divine arrangement?

To find out, order your copies of the book when made available in your respective countries!

Your servant,

Ranga Radhika Dasi
