Hare Krishna to all devotees,
Please accept my humble obeisances.
All glories to Srila Prabhupada.
All glories to Guru Maharaj.


          MORNING PROGRAM – SADHANA

“So nice to see you, Prabhupäda,” I smiled, trying to look and feel cheerful. Prabhupäda smiled and asked my wife about her parents, whom he had met in Australia.
Turning to me, he asked, “What is your morning program?”
“Well, Prabhupäda, we don’t really have so many guests coming right now, so we usually don’t have much of a morning program.” My wife quickly closed the glass window between the front and back seats, separating Satsvarüpa Mahäräja from our conversation.
Prabhupäda continued, “Guests may or may not be coming, but why don’t you have a morning program? Is your temple in ISKCON? Whose disciple are you?”
“Of course I am your disciple, Prabhupäda.” I was getting nervous.
“Then why you don’t have a morning program?”
Like a symphony opening with the clash of cymbals, Prabhupäda pointed out my deficiencies and misconceptions. My attempts to defend myself only increased Prabhupäda’s attack. By the time the Rolls Royce had passed through the Harbour Tunnel and reached the Hong Kong Hilton, I was exhausted.
* * *
It is both the right and the duty of a spiritual master to criticize his disciples. By that criticism, says Cäëakya Paëòita, good qualities develop. We therefore at times hear that it is glorious to be reprimanded by our spiritual master. It is glorious to have him weed the anarthas from our hearts, but his reprimand is neither romantic nor pleasurable. It is intensely painful. The person we are working so hard to please is angry—even furious—with us. Nor can we rightfully, in defense, shuck the blame to others for our own faults and inabilities. Only by taking responsibility for our actions can we become rectified. Then only can good qualities surface.
I can think of two analogies to describe how this mercy felt: open heart surgery without anesthesia and Biblical Adam’s attempt to hide from God after he had sinned. I remember feeling I had no shelter and nowhere to hide.
Genuine concern for our spiritual lives caused Prabhupäda to act so strongly because he knew that our present path would in time leave no more or Hari Haribol! We had mixed impurity, the enjoying spirit, into our Kåñëa conscious practices and preaching. We had begun to drift. By asking “Whose disciple are you?” Prabhupäda drew the line: I was his disciple and I had to listen to him.

 Your aspiring servant
 Devashish Krishna das
