rinciples for community building by HH Bhakti Tirtha Swami
 
1.  Let us remember that the Bhagavad-Gita was spoken on a battlefield, and as spiritual warriors, we each have our own battlefield to deal with on a day to day basis. Whether we’re at work, at home, at school, at a festival, in the temple, or even on the altar, Krishna is there and Maya, or illusion, is there, too. This battle is always in the background, as we attempt to annihilate our lust, anger, greed, and the other enemies of the mind. The battlefield is designed for both defeat and for victory. No other arena is more provocative and intense than a battlefield—it brings out the best and the worst in people. In a war, we have casualties, traitors, and spies. We also have victims, survivors, and high achievers. In war, we depend on association, strategy, and mentors. But each individual person is held responsible for certain duties, and one person’s failure can often bring disaster to many. Also, one person’s success can often bring victory to many.

 2.  Take a daily personal inventory, in the morning or the evening, to see how you are progressing spiritually. Look at each day as if it could be your last. Take inventory and cry out directly to your Deity, to the pictures of your gurus. Let them know your heart and mind, and beg for their help, guidance and chastisement. Tell them what you have offered to them that day for the mission of Srila Prabhupada and the mission of your gurus. The more we are personal with Krishna and with our spiritual masters, the more we will get that kind of reciprocation in our lives.

 3.  Look at your life and distinctly see if you are helping to relieve the miseries of others. Our lives as Vaishnavas have as much value as we touch the life of another. Most of our thoughts and arrangements are about what isn’t working in our own lives. That is not transcendental. Yes, problems will be there and many of them will stay there. But we are all bigger than our own little problems. These experiences, problems, and challenges are part of our particular battlefield, and we have to deal with them to meet Krishna on the other side. That’s why Krishna says that one who is dear to Him will be unaffected by happiness and distress. They’re not seeing themselves as the center. As we think, act, plan, and strategize more in that way, we will correspondingly see so many issues, problems, and even stagnation in our own lives becoming minimized or removed.

 4.  Remember this prayer: “Dear Lord, whatever we need to be better servants for Srila Prabhupäda’s mission, let it happen or come to us. Whatever we need to have taken away to become pure in Srila Prabhupäda’s service, let it be taken away.”
