Bhakti means relationships as that is what fulfills
the deepest needs of the heart. Things cannot fill
that vacuum. You can have a house, nice clothes
etc., but they cannot in anyway give fulfillment to
the heart – only the mind and senses. What gives
fulfillment to the heart is satisfying relationships.
When relationships are frustrated, life is frustrated
and people take shelter of non-living things such as
money, objects and intoxication or if not with
people then with animals. Our propensity is to love
and we need to place it somewhere. In this world
relationships are based on the mental and physical
platform which are temporary and people are
misguided to develop relationships based on our
own selfish ego of what can I get from this person.
Relationships are difficult because you invest your
heart in it and therefore you are vulnerable to have
your heart broken - vulnerable and subject to the
deepest pain.

In order to deal with that vulnerability some philosophers and spiritualists have given a door to walk
through, which in their minds solves the problem forever – that all relationships are maya, just an
illusion. There is no more love and no more facilities of love, just simple existence. But that does not fulfill
the essential need for every living heart which needs loving relationships. Because it is the greatest pleasure
it also gives the greatest pain when it is frustrated.
Bhakti teaches that relationship on the platform of truth is the highest fulfillment and it is not subjected to
the vulnerabilities of this illusionary plane. We are all eternal souls, part of God, and our relationships with
God is forever. And in that relationship is the pure perfect relationship between all living beings. When we
develop our relationship in reference to the love that is within us for God and we share our love for God
with each other and for each other in reference to the truth, then these relationships are ultimately fulfilling.
When or relationships are based on real spiritual values and principles, then we are developing relationships
as who we really are, children of God, parts of God, spiritual souls. And on that level we can tolerate,
forgive and in doing so our relationships and the affection we share becomes greater and greater as time
evolves. But not without tests. For real relationships to have meaning and substance we must understand
what is the meaning and substance of love. Love is not selfish, but selfless. It is the willingness to make
sacrifices for the object of our love. And when we share that spirit amongst each other there is no power
within the world which can disturb our relationship.
For a relationship to be real and strong we have to focus by making the priority of our relationship that
higher principle, not the temporary superficial reasons we like each other. We are here to help each other
love God and so need to dive deep, below the surface of our emotions, mind and senses to the essence of
life. – Radhanath Swami
