We must have routine work

Prabhupäda: No, if you can do more, that's all right. Just like I ask everybody to chant 16 rounds. But if you can chant 1600 rounds, then who prohibits you? You can do that. But we should make a regulation of our life, that "So many times I chant. One chapter I shall read. I shall go to the temple at this time." In this way we must have routine work. Then we'll get practiced automatically. Yes. And Gosvämés, the Six Gosvämés, they were following routine work. Even they... Säìkhyä-pürvaka-näma-gäna-natibhiù. They were doing regularly counting. Just like you are counting sixteen rounds. Not only chanting in that counting, but they were offering obeisances also by counting, that "Hundred times I shall offer my obeisances." You see? This is regular routine. Yes.
Conversation April 1, 1971
 


If routine work becomes slack or neglected, then all other attempts will fail
 
So go on very vigorously in this way, travelling, preaching, selling our books and magazines, distributing prasadam, like that. As long as we keep ourselves pure for preaching, then we shall have all good results—of that there is no doubt. One thing, make certain that your routine work is going on nicely—chanting 16 rounds, rising early, cleansing, street Sankirtana, etc.—then all other programs will be successful. If routine work becomes slack or neglected, then all other attempts will fail. We should always cling to the Lotus Feet of the Supreme Personality of Godhead by following very strictly the routine work of devotional service, and then we shall qualify to associate with the Lord by becoming very pure, and that is our real happiness, know if for certain.
Letter to cyavan , Bombay Dec 26, 1971
 
 

Business is secondary to our basic routine work

We must always be careful to render firstly our routine devotional practices, and maintain always the highest standards of chanting, preaching, temple worship, rising early, cleansing, street sankirtana, etc.; business is secondary to our basic routine work. If the routine Krishna Consciousness program is neglected for other things, then everything else will fail. I am very much encouraged that you are anxious to engage in making money for Krishna with oil business and to print my books profusely. If this can all be managed and still the regular temple practices go on nicely, that is best. In every case, as with the question regarding whether prospectus or magazine is better, do the best needful.
Lettert to Hamsaduta , janavary 26, 1972
 
 

You will have no difficulty, as long as our routine work is attended to nicely and the highest standards are maintained
 
I am very pleased that you have been appointed as President for Phoenix, Arizona, center. Now you are being forced by Krishna to advance in Krishna Consciousness, because you must set the perfect example for all others to follow and be always very responsible and sober. I think you will have no difficulty, as long as our routine work is attended to nicely and the highest standards are maintained. Routine work means rising early, cleansing, chanting minimum 16 rounds, having kirtana, reading scriptures, deity worship, like that. Simply always keep yourselves engaged in these matters of regular activity as sincerely as possible, and do not neglect them for a moment, then your all other activities will come out successful, and you can be very certain that very soon you will find yourselves situated on the highest platform of perfectional stage.
Letter to madhucara , 4 feb 1972
 
 
 
Simple formula for success.

Simply if the standard of our routine work is maintained very highly, that is, if we steadfastly perform our daily program of rising early, cleansing, chanting 16 rounds, holding kirtana wherever we are at least twice daily, reading, worshiping the deity, going on Sankirtana, like that—if this routine work is always done nicely and never neglected, then our all success is guaranteed in whatever we do. But if this our regular KC program is allowed to slacken, then everything else we try will fail. That is the simple formula for success.
Letter to kisora , feb 5 , 1972
 
 
 
Go on just to the highest standard and are never for any reason neglected
 
Now develop it very nicely, and especially make certain that the daily routine program is held nicely and to the regular highest ISKCON standard, that is, you should see that our rising early, holding mangala arati, chanting 16 rounds, reading books, having classes, street sankirtana, etc., go on just to the highest standard and are never for any reason neglected. In this way your success is assured, but if we neglect even for a moment our routine, work, if we allow the regular program to become slack then everything else we may try will fail. I think you have understood these things and you are doing things very nicely, and because your "number one concern'' is distributing my books and preaching, I think Krishna will give you all facility to increase more and more and make advancement in Krishna Consciousness.
Letter to Rudra Radhika
 
 
It is not that because we are traveling that we can neglect our routine work 
 
This traveling SKP in buses carrying tents is very encouraging. It should be continued all over the country. One thing is that all the students on the party must strictly follow the rules and regulations. Cleanliness is most essential, rising early, taking bath, etc. It is not that because we are traveling that we can neglect our routine work and become irregular in our habits. No, we must make every effort to remain regulated and clean. This is the solid basis for our work. When our routine work, like chanting, reading books, nice arati, Deity worship, etc., is very nice, then our preaching will have effect. That is the secret.
Letter to Kirtanananda Maharaja, December 12, 1971 
 
 
​All glories to Srila Prabhupada​
