Birds of a feather flock together

It is said, "Birds of a feather flock together." In this world, everyone is attracted by a person of the same category. A drunkard is attracted to persons who are also drunkards. Similarly, a saintly person is attracted by other saintly persons. Påthu Mahäräja was in the topmost position of spiritual advancement, and as such, he was attracted by the Kumäras, who were of the same category. It is said, therefore, that a man is known by his company.
SB 4.22.3 Purport



​How to Welcome Guest​


​In India the custom is that even an ordinary person is offered a glass of water if he suddenly visits and one cannot offer him foodstuff. If there is no water, then one can offer a sitting place, even if it is on straw mats. And if one has no straw mat, he can immediately cleanse the ground and ask the guest to sit there. Supposing that a householder cannot even do that, then with folded hands he can simply receive the guest, saying, "Welcome." And if he cannot do that, then he should feel very sorry for his poor condition and shed tears and simply offer obeisances with his whole family, wife and children. In this way he can satisfy any guest, even if the guest is a saintly person or a king.
SB 4.22.10 Purport​

​It is mentioned here that any house which does not receive a Vaiñëava in the manner already explained in the previous verse is to be considered the residential quarters of venomous serpents. It is said that around the sandalwood tree, which is a very valuable tree, there is a venomous serpent. Sandalwood is very cold, and venomous serpents, because of their poisonous teeth, are always very warm, and they take shelter of the sandalwood trees to become cooler. Similarly, there are many rich men who keep watchdogs or doormen and put up signs that say, "Do not enter," "Trespassers not allowed," "Beware of the dog," etc.
SB 4.22.11 Purport



Idea of highest position

Everyone is trying to elevate himself to the highest position according to his mentality. The karmés, who have a bodily concept of life, try to enjoy sense gratification to the utmost. The jïänés' idea of the highest position is merging into the effulgence of the Lord. But a devotee's highest position is in preaching all over the world the glories of the Supreme Personality of Godhead. Therefore the devotees are actually the representatives of the Supreme Lord, and as such they travel all over the world directly as Näräyaëa because they carry Näräyaëa within their hearts and preach His glories.
SB 4.22.16 Purport
