Today, we would like to share some of the inspiring words from Srila Prabhupada's letters to his disciples, H H Mahavishnu Goswami Maharaj had recorded in his personal diaries. 

 

1. Temple Management - Devotee's duties: Whatever allocation of duty there may be, if we try to execute such specific duty sincerely, that alone can make us much more advanced in Krishna consciousness.

 

2. It is not the numerical strength that works, but it is the Krishna consciousness that works.

 

3. Discipline cannot be observed unless there is obedience. As you are obedient to me, you should also be similarly obedient to my representative.

 

4. Without being jolly, one cannot make any tangible progress in Krishna consciousness.

 

5. Krishna consciousness means we should always be satisfied and be happy, not that we must work for something impossible.

 

6. Not that I must have very nice place, I must serve like this or like that, otherwise I shall go away. No, Vaishnava devotee means give me simply a place to lie down, little prasadam, whatever little service you have got please give me, that's all. Thank you very much for taking up this difficult work to help me in this way. 

 

7. Unless you are continuously engaged, then there will be sickness and illicit sex automatically.

 

8. President: I think if you go on in this way and spend your whole time preaching and engaging others to hear you and become themselves engaged in Krishna's service that will cure you of all misgivings and miserable conditions. Follow this simple formula of chanting regularly with full attention, reading at least one hour, and balance time preaching and speaking and managing one center, and then everything will be alright. 

 

9. All the presidents of our centers should see that all the members are strictly observing the brahminical standards, such as rising early, cleansing at least twice daily, reading profusely, attending arati, like that. You begin immediately this process. That is the main work of GBC. 

 

Srila Prabhupada transcendental vani ki Jai!! Srila Prabhupada avirbhav mahotsav ki jai!! Jagad guru Srila Prabhupada ki Jai!!!

 

Thank you very much
