Srila Prabhupada on "Ekadashi"


Those interested in advancing in Kåñëa consciousness must observe Ekädaçé-vrata regularly.
 SB 9.4.29 Purport
 
One Vedic injunction states, "The result awarded for fasting continuously for one month on six different occasions can easily be achieved simply by accepting a handful of rice offered to Lord Viñëu. This facility is especially offered in the Kali-yuga." Nevertheless, regulated fasting on Ekädaçé is not an impediment to spiritual advancement. Rather, it is a perpetual aspect of devotional service and can be considered an auxiliary principle supporting the main principle of worshiping Lord Kåñëa and His devotees.
SB 11.12.1 Purport
 
 
His mother replied, “My dear son, I will give You whatever You ask.” Then the Lord said, “My dear mother, please do not eat grains on the Ekädaçé day.”
Mother Çacé said, “You have spoken very nicely. I shall not eat grains on Ekädaçé.” From that day, she began to observe fasting on Ekädaçé.
CC AL 15.9-10
 
From the very beginning of His childhood life Çré Caitanya Mahäprabhu introduced the system of observing a fast on the Ekädaçé day. In the Bhakti-sandarbha, by Çréla Jéva Gosvämé, there is a quotation from the Skanda Puräëa admonishing that a person who eats grains on Ekädaçé becomes a murderer of his mother, father, brother and spiritual master, and even if he is elevated to a Vaikuëöha planet, he falls down. On Ekädaçé, everything is cooked for Viñëu, including regular grains and dhal, but it is enjoined that a Vaiñëava should not even take viñëu-prasädam on Ekädaçé. It is said that a Vaiñëava does not accept anything eatable that is not offered to Lord Viñëu, but on Ekädaçé a Vaiñëava should not touch even mahä-prasädam offered to Viñëu, although such prasädam may be kept for being eaten the next day. It is strictly forbidden for one to accept any kind of grain on Ekädaçé, even if it is offered to Lord Viñëu.
CC  AdiLIla 15.9 Purport
 
 
It is a prejudice among smärta-brähmaëas that a widow must observe fasting on Ekädaçé but a woman who is sa-dhava—who has her husband—should not. It appears that before Lord Caitanya’s request, Çacémätä, being sa-dhava, was not observing Ekädaçé. Çré Caitanya Mahäprabhu, however, introduced the system that a woman, even if not a widow, must observe the Ekädaçé day and must not touch any kind of grains, even those offered to the Deity of Viñëu.
CC AL 15.10 Purport
 
 
The Caitanya-bhägavata, Ädi-lélä, Chapter Six, fully describes the Lord's accepting viñëu-prasäda on the Ekädaçé day at the house of Jagadéça and Hiraëya. Regular prasäda is offered to Lord Viñëu on Ekädaçé because, while fasting is recommended for devotees on Ekädaçé, it is not recommended for Lord Viñëu.
CCAL 14.39 Purport
 
 
Just like today, ekädaçé-vrata. Vrataiù. This ekädaçé-vrata is required. Just see. Here it is that "You have performed all the vratas." The purpose of ekädaçé-vrata is that today we should not eat much usual food, grains. The actual prescription is fasting. Nirjala-ekädaçé. Nirjala means there are many devotees who does not take even water. Water, drinking water, according to çästra, it is taking food... It is drinking of food or no food. We can take both ways. So sometimes drinking of water is excused as upaväsa also. But there are many devotees who even..., drink even a drop of water. Whole day and night they fast and observe ekädaçé-vrata. And the night is called hariväsara. Hariväsara means the whole night they would chant Hare Kåñëa, Hare Kåñëa, Kåñëa Kåñëa, Hare Hare/ Hare Räma, Hare Räma... This is called vrata. Dåòha-vrata. Dåòha-vrata.
SB Lecture 1.5.1-8 , 23 May, New Vrindavana
