A long time ago, there was a huge apple tree. A little boy loved to come and play around it every day. He climbed to the tree top, ate the apples, took a nap in its shade.... He loved the tree, and the tree loved to play with him. 
Time went by. The little boy grew up, and he no longer played around the tree every day. One day, the boy came back to the tree with a sad look on his face. 
"Come and play with me," the tree asked the boy. 
"I am no longer a kid, I don’t play around trees anymore." The boy replied, "I want toys. I need money to buy them." 
"Sorry, I don’t have money... but you can pick all my apples and sell them so you will have money." 
The boy was so excited. He grabbed all the apples on the tree and left happily. The boy didn’t come back after he picked the apples. The tree was sad. 
One day, the boy returned and the tree was so excited. 
"Come and play with me," the tree said. 
"I don’t have time to play. I have to work for my family. 
We need a house for shelter. Can you help me?" 
"Sorry, I don’t have a house, but you can chop off my branches to build your house." 
So the boy cut all the branches off the tree and left happily. The tree was glad to see him happy, but the boy didn’t come back afterward. The tree was again lonely and sad. 
One hot summer day, the boy returned and the tree was delighted. 
"Come and play with me," the tree said. 
"I am sad and getting old. I want to go sailing to relax myself. Can you give me a boat?" 
"Use my trunk to build your boat. You can sail far away and be happy." 
So the boy cut the tree truck to make a boat. He went sailing and didn’t come back for a long time. 
Finally, the boy returned after he had been gone for many years. "Sorry, my boy. But I don’t have anything for you anymore. No more apples for you," the tree said. 
"I don’t have teeth to bite," the boy replied. 
"No more trunk for you to climb on." 
"I am too old for that now" the boy said. "I really can’t give you anything... the only thing left is my dying roots," the tree said with sadness. 
"I don’t need much now, just a place to rest. I am tired after all these years," the boy replied. 
"Good! Old tree roots are the best thing to lean on and rest. Come sit down with me and rest."

The boy sat down and the tree was glad and smiled with tears. 
This story is everyone´s. 
The tree is God, of course. 




What is the moral of the story ? 




01) God can never be depleted. 
02) He is never affected by our lack of care. 
03) As we get more entangled in material life, we leave Him. 
04) We come to Him only when we need something or when we are in trouble. 
05) No matter what, Krishna will always be there for us to love us 
and to help us – unconditionally !!! 
06) It may seem as if the way the boy treats the "tree" in the story is cruel, but 
many of us take God for granted in the same manner. 
07) Never forget how important it is in your life to be grateful to Krishna for what 
all He has been so mercifully giving us, not only now, but since time 
immemorial and continue to give us eternally. 
08) Keep on regularly expressing our deep gratitude to Him. 
09) And keep on incessantly praying for His causeless mercy.



Subject: Pleasing People

 
There was an old man, a boy and a donkey. They were going to town and it was decided that the boy should ride. As they went along they passed some people who thought that it was a shame for the boy to ride and the old man to walk. The man and boy decided that may be the critics were right so they changed positions. Later, they passed some more people who thought that it was a real shame for the man to make such a small boy walk. The two decided that may be they both should walk.
 
Soon they passed some more people who thought that it was stupid to walk when they had a donkey to ride. The man and the boy decided maybe the critics were right so they decided that they both should ride. They soon passed other people who thought that it was a shame to put such a load on a poor little animal. The old man and the boy decided that may be the critics were right so they decided to carry the donkey. As they crossed a bridge they lost their grip on the animal and it fell into the river and drowned.
 
The moral of the story is...if you try to please everyone, you will eventually lose your ass.
 
And, believe me; most of us are always eager to please or impress others. Is it not? Let us give a thought on this…



Subject: The Wise Old Man
 
A wealthy man requested an old scholar to wean his son away from his bad habits.
The scholar took the youth for a stroll through a garden. Stopping suddenly he asked the boy to pull out a tiny plant growing there. The youth held the plant between his thumb and forefinger and pulled it out. The old man then asked him to pull out a slightly bigger plant. The youth pulled hard and the plant came out, roots and all.
"Now pull out that one," said the old man pointing to a bush. The boy had to use all his strength to pull it out.
"Now take this one out," said the old man, indicating a guava tree. The youth grasped the trunk and tried to pull it out. But it would not budge.
"I – It's impossible," said the boy, panting with the effort.
"So it is with bad habits," said the sage. "When they are young it is easy to pull them out but when they take hold they cannot be uprooted."
The session with the old man changed the boy's life.
