TELEVISION: THE ONE-EYED MODERN GURU

 
Television has become an integral part of every modern house. It is thought by
most modern people to be an indispensable necessity that offers them a
much-needed break from the tension & boredom of modern mechanistic life-style.
Although a few whispers are often heard here & there about the detrimental
affects of T.V., they are generally drowned out by the overwhelming uproar of
those wanting the enjoyment offered by television.
 
Television is not run by social workers interested in the benefit of the
audience. T.V. is run by businessman who are ready to do anything and
everything to maximize their profits. Although people eagerly savor the various
programs on television, little do they know the deadly effect it is having on
their minds. Almost without exception T.V. programs shows levels of opulence &
enjoyment that are unattainable for common people. Such programs coupled with
the alluring advertisements of various luxury products that are periodically
aired between all programs, ensures that the audience’s hearts become filled
with uncontrollable and most often insatiable desires for wealth and pleasure.
This inevitably results in people behaving like programmed robots working hard
to try to earn money - by hook or by crook - to enjoy life the way it is
portrayed on T.V. It is important to understand the T.V. doesn’t offer harmless
innocent entertainment. It also determines the values and goals of people.
 
Television is becoming the guru of modern man; it teaches him how to dress, how
to walk, how to talk, how to eat. However TV is a treacherous guru. Statistics
shows that within two years of introduction and promotion of T.V. in a third
world country, the crime rates increased 10 times within just 2 years. An
average American child, even before he reaches 10 years of age, sees thousands
of murder, rapes and other crime on television. After exposing their children
to such ghastly violence, isn’t it ironic that American parents feel aghast
when school children armed with guns shoot their teachers and co-students? Many
intelligent Americans including eminent filmstars, social activists and
national leaders have joined hands in forming a "no T.V". campaign group. They
and their children have minimized T.V. viewing to the barest minimum necessary.
Their concern is of course mostly material. Excessive T.V. viewing inhibits
creativity, creates lethargy and of course wastes time.
 
But from the point of India, which has the most glorious cultural and spiritual
heritage in the world, the effects of T. V. are far more insidious. What 700
years of Mugal rule could not accomplish, what 200 years of British rule could
not do, television has done in just a few decades. Television has attacked and
damaged severely the very foundation of Vedic culture. In the past, everyone in
India would gather every evening as a family in a local temple or under a
nearby banyan tree to sing bhajans, kirtans and hear the glorious stories of
Lord Rama and Krishna and the timeless message of the Bhagavad-gita – of the
soul and its loving relationship with God. Their minds and heart saturated with
these divine vibrations, people would sleep happily and wake up
enthusiastically and joyfully advance towards the ultimate goal of life - to
return back to the kingdom of God. Unfortunately nowadays instead of coming
together to glorify God, people come together infront of the modern deity -
 T.V. There they sit together united in a stupor of illusion, burning with
passion and desire, dissatisfied and frustrated, imagining happiness in the
vicarious inane pleasures offered by the idiot box.
 
Indians are meant to lead the world through the spiritual wisdom and culture
Srila Prabhupada would lament that Indians are sitting on jewels but are
begging for broken glass. Instead of being victimized by the bombardment of
Western culture though TV, Indians have the opportunity to find the treasure of
divine love and happiness that lies dormant within their own heart and share it
with the whole world. The original tele-vision meaning ‘vision from a distance’
was when Sanjaya observed from the court in Hastinapura the events on the
battlefield of Kurukshetra and narrated them to Dhritarashtra. Thus the message
of the Bhagvad Gita is India’s ancient TV program. Let us see, hear and
understand the message coming from that original mystical television. Let us
assimilate and disseminate the wisdom of the Gita to the whole world and become
happy ourselves and offer the whole world the pathway to everlasting happiness
