All glories to Srila Prabhupada
All glories to Gurumaharaja

Dear devotees,
Please accept my humble obeisances. I hope this finds you in the best of spiritual health and physical health.
The Gopi geet has always fascinated me since I heard it, few years back, sung by Gurumaharaja in one of his evening kirtan sessions, in Ujjain. So I want to share with you the various words with which the Gopis glorify Sri Krishna.
Description Of Sri Krishna
1. Surata-natha - Lord of love
2. Rsabha - Greatest of personalities
3. Akhila-dehinam - Of all embodied living entities
4. Antaratma-drk - The seer of the inner consciousness
5. Vrsni-dhurya-te - O best of the Vrsnis
6. Kara-sarah-ruham - Your hand like a lotus flower
7. Kanta-kama-dam - O lover, who fulfills all desires
8. Vraja-janarti-han - O destroyer of sufferings of the people of Vraja
9. Vira-yositam - O hero of women
10. Nija-jana-smaya-dhvamsana-smita - Your smile shatters the false pride of devotees
11. Madhuraya-gira - Your sweet voice
12. Valgu vakyaya - charming words
13. Puskara-iksana - O lotus eyed one
14. Adhara-sidhuna - The nectar of your lips
15. Tava-kathamrtam - The nectar of Your words
16. Prahasitam-priya - Your affectionate smiles
17. Prema-viksanam - Loving glances
18. Kuhaka - O cheater
19. Nalina-sundaram-natha-te-padam - O master, Your feet are more beautiful than a lotus flower
20. Vana-ruha-ananam - Your lotus face
21. Dharani-mandanam - The ornament of the earth
22. Dhyeyam-apadi - The object of meditation in the time of distress
23. Carana-pankajam - Your lotus feet
24. Ramana - O lover
25. Surata-vardhanam-soka-nasanam
      Svarita-venuna-susthu-cumbitam
      Itara-raga-vismaranam-nrnam
      Vitara-vira-nas-te adharamrtam
      O hero, kindly distribute to us the nectar of Your lips, which enhances conjugal pleasures and vanquishes            grief. That nectar is thoroughly relished by Your vibrating flute and makes people forget any other                        attachments.
26. Kutila-kuntalam-sri-mukham-ca-te - Your beautiful face with curling locks of hair
27.  Acyuta - O infallible one
28.  Kitava - O cheater
29.  Brhad-urah-sriyo - Your broad chest, the resting place of the goddess of fortune
30. Vrijina-hantri-alam - The agent of destruction of distress
31. Visva-mangalam - All auspicious
32. Priya - O dear one
I hope you enjoy reading it as much as I enjoyed compiling it.
Your aspiring servant
Shantirupa dd 
