Lord Nṛsiṁhadeva resides in the tract of land known as Hari-varṣa. Prahlāda Mahārāja, along with his servants and all the denizens of Hari-varṣa, worships Lord Nṛsiṁhadeva by chanting the following mantra.

oṁ namo bhagavate narasiṁhāya 
namas tejas-tejase āvir-āvirbhava 
vajra-nakha vajra-daṁṣṭra 
karmāśayān randhaya randhaya 
tamo grasa grasa om svāhā; 
abhayam abhayam ātmani 
bhūyiṣṭhā oṁ kṣraum.


I offer my respectful obeisances unto Lord Nåsiàhadeva, the source of all power. O my Lord who possesses nails and teeth just like thunderbolts, kindly vanquish our demonlike desires for fruitive activity in this material world. Please appear in our hearts and drive away our ignorance so that by Your mercy we may become fearless in the struggle for existence in this material world.
SB 5.18.8

Unless one is completely freed of all material desires, which are caused by the dense darkness of ignorance, one cannot fully engage in the devotional service of the Lord. Therefore we should always offer our prayers to Lord Nåsiàhadeva, who killed Hiraëyakaçipu, the personification of material desire.

​Any devotee aspiring to be free of material desires should offer his respectful prayers to Nåsiàhadeva as Prahläda Mahäräja did in this verse.
SB 5.18.8 Purport​


​svasty astu viśvasya khalaḥ prasīdatāṁ
 dhyāyantu bhūtāni śivaṁ mitho dhiyā
manaś ca bhadraṁ bhajatād adhokṣaje
 āveśyatāṁ no matir apy ahaitukī
​​​
May there be good fortune throughout the universe, and may ​​all envious persons be pacified. May all living entities become calm by practicing bhakti-yoga, for by accepting devotional service they will think of each other’s welfare. Therefore let us all engage in the service of the supreme transcendence, Lord Śrī Kṛṣṇa, and always remain absorbed in thought of Him.​

Prahlāda Mahārāja is a typical Vaiṣṇava. He prays not for himself but for all living entities — the gentle, the envious and the mischievous.

Anyone who takes up Kṛṣṇa consciousness and engages himself completely in the service of the Lord cleanses his mind of all envy (manaś ca bhadraṁ bhajatād adhokṣaje). Therefore we should pray to Lord Nṛsiṁhadeva to sit in our hearts. We should pray, bahir nṛsiṁho hṛdaye nṛsiṁhaḥ: “Let Lord Nṛsiṁhadeva sit in the core of my heart, killing all my bad propensities. Let my mind become clean so that I may peacefully worship the Lord and bring peace to the entire world.”

Hiraṇyakaśipu was envious of his little son Prahlāda, but Prahlāda Mahārāja asked a benediction for the benefit of his father. Hiraṇyakaśipu was very envious of devotees, but Prahlāda wished that his father and other demons like him would give up their envious nature by the grace of the Lord and stop harassing the devotees (khalaḥ prasīdatām).
If the Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement spreads all over the world, and if by the grace of Kṛṣṇa everyone accepts it, the thinking of envious people will change. Everyone will think of the welfare of others. Therefore Prahlāda Mahārāja prays, śivaṁ mitho dhiyā. In material activities, everyone is envious of others, but in Kṛṣṇa consciousness, no one is envious of anyone else; everyone thinks of the welfare of others. Therefore Prahlāda Mahārāja prays that everyone’s mind may become gentle by being fixed at the lotus feet of Kṛṣṇa (bhajatād adhokṣaje).
​SB 5.1​8.9​​​ Purport​​




Many many life times you are trying to enjoy and you can see that you are still not satisfied. Just offer this life to Krishna and see what happens even if at the end of this life nothing happens, what is the loss?  It is just one life time out of so many.

