Actually when Krishna was going to Vrindavana riding on a cart on His
mother's lap, Krishna asked "What is there in Vrindavana? Why are you going
to Vrindavana? Mother Rohini told Krishna that there are many beautiful
places to play and then Krishna asked "Why are those places so beautiful?.
She then explained to Krishna that because there are beautiful articles. You
will find many beautiful articles to play with. So Krishna became very happy
and they settled down in Vrindavana and yesterday I described how at night
when they all were asleep. Visvakarma, the engineer, the architect, the
demigod arrived there with thousands and thousands of helpers and throughout
the night and built many beautiful palaces for the residents of Vrindavana.
And in the morning when they woke up they found beautiful palaces with the
names of different individuals, head of the family inscribed in golden
letters on the gateway. So, Vrindavana, although in our mundane vision
appears to be just an ordinary place, some sort of forests and now even the
forests are drying out. But actually in Vrindavan, in real Vrindavana there
are many, many beautiful places where Krishna and His associates reside .So,
every morning Krishna used to go to the pasturing ground with Balarama and
their other friends and they used to take the calves. Actually when a boy
was 6 to 10 years old, he was allowed to take care of the calves and then
after that, he used to take care of the cows. So, this is how they used to
get trained up. Little boys take care of the calves and older cowherd people
take care of the cows. So, Krishna and Balarama along with their friends
used to take care of the calves. So, one day when they were taking care of
the calves, then all of a sudden Krishna noticed that there is a strange
looking calf. So, actually Kamsa sent one of his associates to kill Krishna
and the name of that associate was Vatsasura who came disguised as a calf.
He thought that actually they used to all plan like as you remember I
mentioned yesterday
When Trnavrta came Trnavrta thought that because Putana came in some form
that's why Krishna could kill her but if he comes without a form, without a
visible form then Krishna wouldn't be able to kill him. Therefore he came in
the guise of a whirlwind, because that kind of the thing doesn't really have
a tangible or visible form but still Krishna killed him. But then Vatsasura
thought that he will be, he won't make the same mistake as Putana and
Trnavrta so he thought that he would come as a calf and Krishna is very fond
of calves. Krishna won't be able to detect him as an enemy and then in a
moment he would kill Krishna. But Krishna saw that this personality in the
disguise of a calf was looking at him and also looking at other calves in a
very angry way. Krishna could detect anger from his glances. So Krishna told
Balarama "Balarama, look at this strange character. [All laughs] Something
is wrong there. I suspect that this is a demon and look at the way he is
looking at us and the way he is looking at the calves. Generally calves do
not look at us like that. Krishna said "Anyway I will take care of him. But
then Balarama said "Krishna, if you kill a calf then people will say bad
things about you. They will say that you have killed a calf because cow
killing is considered a very, very heinous crime according to the Vedic
understanding. So, Krishna told Balarama "Don't worry when I will kill him.
His demon form will become exposed, so then people won't say that I killed a
calf. They will say I killed a demon. So Balarama said "That's a good idea.
So, then Krishna just started to call the calf. He used to make the sound
with His mouth, from His mouth and hearing that sound, all the calves used
to come close to Him. So Krishna started making that sound and all the
calves started to come towards Him and then this Vatsasura also thought that
now is the opportune moment. Now I will go close to Krishna and then I will
kill Him. So, he came with his head faced upwards like he wanted Krishna to
catch him on his neck. So, Krishna started to scratch him on his neck and
then before Vatsasura could do anything all of a sudden Krishna just grabbed
him by his hind legs and started to swing him above His head and He swung
him until he left his body. So, this way the Vatsasura demon was killed. At
a great distance the calf, the dead body of the demon fell down and then
everybody could see that he was in fact a demon so they all became very
surprised how Krishna could recognize that this demon actually came to cause
harm to them. So, in this way everybody went back home, practically every
evening they had some wonderful story to tell to all the people about
Krishna. They would in great detail describe to their parents and all the
members of the family how Krishna killed such and such demon in a very
wonderful way. So, after Vatsasura's death, actually Kamsa used to send the
demons and he also used to send his men, his spies to see what was
happening. So, a spy went back and told Kamsa that Vatsasura had also been
finished. So, Kamsa became very, very upset. One day when Kamsa was in such
a bad mood, in extreme anxiety, of what was going to happen to him and how
he was going to get rid of this Krishna, the son of Nanda Maharaja, who is
actually the son of Vasudev and Devaki, who was actually meant to kill him.
So, one of his friends came and told Kamsa, you should call Bhakasura and
Bhakasura was so powerful that even the demigods in the heaven used to
tremble in fear just hearing his name and I will describe how powerful
Bhakasura actually was. So Kamsa then called Bhakasura and they said that
look Bhakasura is so powerful that he would positively kill Krishna. No one
is able to do it Krishna won't be able to do anything to Bhakasura. Now
others were not strong enough. But this one is much stronger. So, he would
surely kill Krishna. So, Kamsa called Bhakasura and he told Bhakasura. So,
Bhakasura I think you should go and do something about this boy and
Bhakasura said "No problem, I will go and take care of him. I was just
waiting for your command, your order." But then Kamsa said "Be careful, all
this great powerful demons have been killed by this little boy. It seems
that he has some great power. Maybe He is one of the demigods who have been
born as a cowherd boy. Because the power He is displaying is uncommon. It is
not possible for a human being to display this kind of power. Now, Bhakasura
said "Kamsa, don't worry, I will just take care of him." Kamsa agreed "Okay!
Demon bless you. Let all the demons bless you for your success [HHBCS
laughs]. So, then Bhakasura went there in the morning when the cowherd boys
were tending the cows in the pasturing ground. All of a sudden Krishna saw
that there was a White Mountain peak in Vrindavana. So, Krishna became very
surprised. He said" Where did the mountain come from? But then when they
observed closely then they saw that was actually a huge crane and the white
of the crane was appearing like a mountain peak and so Krishna became very
surprised and he said that this is a special type of creature. So, Krishna's
friends got excited "Krishna let's go and see what it is." So, they all went
close to the bird. And when they came close then Bhakasura came charging
towards Krishna and but when he grabbed Krishna in his mouth and he found
that this little boy was very hot. So, he let the boy go. But this time
Krishna just played with the crane for some time. In between the crane's
beak Krishna used his feet and pushed the lower back onto the ground and
with his hands he pulled the beak. Although the other cowherd boys couldn't
see that. But Krishna expanded his body to such an extent in that way that
the crane's mouth and his neck and the whole body got torn into two pieces.
First when Bhakasura actually helped Krishna within his mouth then the
demigods became very concerned and felt that now they cannot do something to
help Krishna. So, Indra actually released his thunderbolt. But the
thunderbolt struck on Bhakasura's body. Even Indra's thunderbolt couldn't do
anything. Other demigods started to release their weapons but nothing
happened to him actually. So, in this way Krishna played with the Bhakasura
for some time. Then Krishna killed that demon. So, this way Bhakasura was
killed. Again the news was taken to Kamsa and Kamsa got really upset. And so
the next one was. So, what I will do is, I will just I will describe, today
I will describe how Krishna killed the demons. I am not going in
chronological order. Like many things happened actually between. Krishna
killed this demon but today I will just describe the killing demons and this
way I will deal with different aspects of Krishna's pastimes. Now next one
was Aghasura. Aghasura was the brother of Bhakasura. So, Kamsa called
Aghasura. Aghasura was another very, very ferocious demon. So, Kamsa told
Aghasura that Bhakasura had been killed and now what could be done. So
Aghasura said "Don't worry I will go and take revenge of my brother's death.
So, Kamsa again blessed him on behalf of all the demons. He was a huge
python. The description of that python has been given as his mouth was wide
open and it seems that the upper jaw of the mouth of the snake was touching
the sky. The teeth of the snake appeared to be like mountain. And the mouth
of the snake appeared to be like a huge cave in the mountain. So, the boys
became very surprised. They said "Wow! Look there is a new cave. We didn't
see this cave before. So, they just walked right into it along with the
calves and Krishna was standing there and Krishna could sense some danger.
But Krishna felt that the boys have already entered his mouth and Krishna's
friends were completely fearless. They knew that Krishna will protect them
from all dangers. So, they did not have any fear of anything. So, they
walked straight into Aghasura's mouth and then Aghasura was also waiting
just for Krishna to enter. Aghasura felt that as soon as Krishna would
enter, he would just close his mouth. So, he just kept his mouth open and
Krishna was just watching and that day Balarama was not there because that
day was the birthday of Balarama... So, Krishna finally, when all the
friends entered into Aghasura's mouth Krishna felt that he must do something
to save them. And so finally Krishna walked into Aghasura's mouth and as
soon as Krishna entered, Aghasura demon closed his mouth and then Krishna
expanded himself in such a way and His body became so hot that He got stuck
in Aghasura's throat suffocating him to death. And he could not breathe
anymore because Krishna had struck his throat and finally his life air left
from his head. His life air penetrated through Brahmarandra, the hole on the
top of the head and left the body. There is a very nice discussion about
Aghasura and Krishna from Jiva Goswami. After the life air left, Krishna
told Aghasura "Sorry, the space was so small that either I had to leave or
your life air had to leave .I felt [HHBCS laughs]. So your life air had to
leave from the top of your head and all the cowherd boys came out. So, this
is how Krishna saved the cowherd boys and killed Aghasura, So, after that
they all went and had a picnic. They went to the bank of Yamuna and Krishna
told the friends "Today we all will share our food" and Krishna felt and
Krishna actually told His friends that My father is the king, so they give
me such nice prasadam but others are not so rich, others parents are not so
rich, so they can't give them such opulent food so today we will share our
food and they all started to share they all sat down in a circle and some
were giving, offering some food to Krishna's mouth and Krishna was eating
that. So, Brahma who was also watching he was wondering who this personality
actually is? In many ways he felt that he must be Narayana but when he saw
that Krishna was eating the remnants of other cowherd boys, he felt that
this cannot be Narayana because Narayana would never eat anyone's remnants.
So, Brahma decided to check out Krishna. Brahma felt that let me see who
this person actually is? At that time Brahma stole the calves. So, all of a
sudden the cowherd boys noticed that the calves were missing. They were
about to get up and started looking for the calves. So, Krishna said just
wait a minute maybe they have gone to some distance; you all carry on taking
prasadam I will go and look for the calves and I will bring back the calves.
When Krishna went to look for the calves, Brahma stole the cowherd boys
also. First he stole the calves and now he stole the cowherd boys and he
took them in a mountain cave, kept them in a mountain cave, he filled the
mountain cave, the mouth of the mountain with a big stone, big And it took
Brahma just one second to steal the cowherd boys and fill them up in a
mountain cave and turn around and look at Krishna. But Brahma's one second
is actually 1 year according to human calculation. In the 3th Canto, Srimad
Bhagvatam, the description has been given very vividly, how the time
calculation differs in different planes. Like in the human calculation, we
have 12 months in a year. First of all 1 month has 2 sections, the Krishna
Paksa and the Sukla Paksa, the waxing period of the moon and the waning
period of the moon. Now 1 period, waxing period takes 15 days and waning
period takes 15 days. Now this one month is actually a day and night of the
Pitri lokas. In the Pitri loka, the Sukla Paksa is the day, our 15 days is
the day of the Pitri loka and the night is also 15 days. In the heavenly
planets our 6 months is the day and our 6 months is the night. Like when the
sun is in the northern hemisphere, then is the day of the demigods and when
the sun is in the southern hemisphere, then it is the night of the demigods.
So, in this way the concept of day and night ranges in different planes. How
much is the day of Brahma? What is the duration of the day of the Brahma?

Devotee: 4.3 Billion Years
HHBCS: 4.2 Billion Years

So, 1000 Chatur yugas- Sat, Treta , Dwapara and Kali, this four yugas
multiplied by thousand is a day of Brahma and that is the duration of
Brahma's night. So, Brahma's one second is our year. So Brahma looked back
and he found he was thinking i. Krishna is in great anxiety but when he
looked back he found all the cowherd boys and all the calves there. Actually
what happened is when Krishna came back after looking for the cows and not
finding them, he found that his friends are also missing and remember that
day Balarama was not there. So, somehow Brahmai.. Because if he tried any
funny trick with Balarama, he would have been in trouble. [All laughs]. So,
Brahma was, so that day Balarama was not there, So, Brahma stole all the
other cowherd boys and when Krishna came back He found that all the cowherd
boys were missing. So, he could understand that this was the brain of
Brahma. So, he immediately expanded all the cowherd boys and all the calves
from his body. So, actually this cowherd boys and calves were expansions of
Krishna. That means they were not Jiva Tatva anymore. They were Vishnu
Tatva. They all were non-different from Krishna. So, when Brahma looked
back, he found the cowherd boys and the calves and then he could understand
that this kind of performance can only be done by Narayana, only by the
Supreme Personality of Godhead who is his father. So, Brahma came to
Krishna, beg forgiveness. So, this is called Brahma-Vimohan Lila. How Brahma
was bewildered? There is another important thing to remember, that is that
Brahma at that time became very, very repentant that he did something that
he committed a great offense to the Supreme Personality of Godhead and
although the Lord although Krishna forgave him, Brahma was not satisfied.
So, he wanted to perform great penance to neutralize his offence and Brahma
actually came here in Navadwip and he performed great penance thousands of
years and as a result of that the Supreme Personality of Godhead appeared to
him in a very wonderful form. The Supreme Personality of Godhead appeared to
him in the golden form and he assured Brahma that there was no offense. His
offense was forgiven. He did not mind it at all. So, then Brahma asked him
"This form of yours I have never seen before. What is the secret behind this
form? So, then the Lord told him that in the age of Kali, He appears in this
form and that form is known as Gauranga, Caitanya Mahaprabhu. So, Brahma
requested golden Supreme Personality of Godhead to give him the chance to
appear with him in that pastime in the age of Kali. So, Lord accepted that
prayer of Brahma and then again Brahma requested that my Lord usually I am
very proud, I become so puffed up, I become so arrogant that I forget your
supreme position and becoming proud of my elevated position of Brahma, I
commit offense to you. When you appear and you allow me to come with you in
that pastime, please allow me to be born in a very low class family. Let me
have a very low birth so that there won't be any room for me to become
proud. So, the Lord said "Okay, if you desire that way, then your desire
will be fulfilled." So, then Brahma got a chance to appear in Sri Chaitanya
Mahaprabhu's pastime as Haridas Thakur. Haridas Thakur was born in a Muslim
family. But he is actually the highest of all the greatest of all the
Brahmanas. Brahma himself, but he was the most intimate associate of Sri
Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. So, this way Brahma stole the calves and he was
blessed by the Lord in his golden incarnation. Now one day the cowherd boys
were playing in the forests of Vrindavan and then they came to the Talavan
for, Tala means palm fruit. Those who were being in India in summer have
seen that. Tala fruit is a big type of fruit which has a beautiful
fragrance. So, there was a Tala forest which was full of Tala fruits and the
boys were playing, they started to get hungry and they smelt the beautiful
fragrance of this Tala fruit. And they asked Krishna and Balarama "Please we
are feeling very hungry. So, please let us have some fruits, Tala fruits."
But some said that please do not go there because this forest is actually
the forest of the demon called Dhenukasura. So, Dhenukasura was a demon in
the form of a donkey. He used to protect the Tala forest. So Balarama said
"Don't worry, we can take care of any demon". They also said yes. When
Balarama and Krishna are there, we are not afraid of anything. Because we
know you can kill anyone. So, then Balarama just went and He started to
shake the forest, the trees, this Tala fruit trees are very strong but
Balarama is so strong that he started to shake the trees and the fruits
started to drop on the ground making great noise and so, Dhenukasura when he
heard the noise he became very angry and immediately he came running and he
saw that these little boys were plundering his Tala forest. So, he
immediately charged towards Balarama. But Balarama He just grabbed
Dhenukasura by his hind leg and started to swing him and then He threw him
and Dhenukasura just fell on the top of a Tala tree and left his body. Then
Dhenuka's friends also came and attacked Krishna and Balarama. But Krishna
and Balarama one after another finished all the demons. So, in this way
Krishna and Balarama killed the demons. Anyway I will try to finish the
demons story today and I will go through quickly. And then another demon
came his name is Pralambasura. Pralamba was a very powerful demon but
Pralamba actually came in the disguise of a cowherd boy. Pralamba saw that
Krishna and Balarama were playing with Their friends. So, the way they were
playing is Srinath was sitting in one place and surrounded by some of his
friends and Srinath was playing a role of a king and Krishna and Balarama
appeared there and told Srinath with folded hands that My lord, your
highness how you address a king your majesty that Your majesty we are
dancers. So, we want to perform some dances for your pleasure. So, everyone
said that's very nice, our king appreciates it very much and the king said I
will reward you if I am pleased with your dance, I will reward you with many
wonderful things. So, then Krishna and Balarama started dancing. That was
the most beautiful dance. So, they said, the king was very pleased. So, the
king said as I told you if I am pleased I will reward you to your
satisfaction. So, I will give you many valuable jewels or gold. So, Krishna
said from your name I know you are Srinath you are the abode of Sri means
you are the abode of Laxmi, so you can give a lot of Laxmi, a lot of wealth
but I am not interested in wealth. Actually I like to fight. So, I want to
fight, I want to wrestle with you. So, if you are really pleased with us so
accept our challenge. So, Srinath said fine if that is what you want I
promise that I will reward you according to your satisfaction. So, I will
offer you what you actually wanted. So, Krishna then said okay I am very
happy that you agreed to fight with me. So, in the mean time Pralambasura he
thought that this is the good opportunity. So, as a cowherd boy he just
walked he just got mingled in the group. So, the boys were divided into 2
groups, one group will wrestle with the other and the looser whoever will be
defeated will carry the winner on his back and take him around the forest.
Make him ride around the back, around the forest and so this Pralambasura he
fought with Balarama because he thought that if Balarama is defeated then
Krishna will become so heartbroken that it wouldn't be at all difficult to
kill Krishna. So, Krishna has actually derived the strength from Balarama.
So, first I will kill Balarama and then I will kill Krishna. So, he wrestled
with Balarama and Balarama was defeated. So, Balarama had to carry
Pralambasura. Actually Krishna already told Balarama that look there is
another strange character here. Then Krishna actually called the Pralamba
Oh! My friend Pralambasura. I didn't see you for so long. Please come and
Pralambasura was very happy that Krishna was treating him nicely, Krishna
could recognize him he thought that Krishna thought that he was His friend.
Krishna embraced him, he said I am so happy to see you so and they wanted
Krishna wanted to Pralamba to fight with Balarama. And then Pralamba
actually chose to fight with Balarama. So, Balarama was defeated and
Balarama was carrying Pralamba and then after going a little distance
Pralambasura became very large. He displayed his own real body now which was
a huge demon's body and he was running away with Balarama on his back. So,
Balarama at first couldn't see around what was the matter. He saw that all
of a sudden he saw that he was this little boy who he thought a cowherd boy
became a very big, huge demon. So, then Balarama started to hit him on the
head and Balarama hit him so hard that Pralambasura left his body. His life
air left his body and he was dead. So, this way Pralambasura was dead.
Three other demons Krishna killed. One is Shankachurasura. Shankachura was a
demon who became envious of Krishna when he saw Krishna was dancing with the
gopis. Krishna was actually having loving exchanges with the gopis. This
Shankachura came and stole two gopis and Krishna was sitting with Srimati
Radharani at that time. So, Lalita and Vishakha came running to Him and told
Krishna that this demon has stolen two of our girls. So, Krishna immediately
ran after the demon and because the demon was carrying the two girls, he
could run very fast, so Krishna very quickly caught him and punched him on
his face and the demon was dead [all laughs]. Now this Shankachura had a
jewel called Srikant Mani in his chest. So, Krishna opened his chest and
took that jewel. So, in the mean time, this happened in the day time. So,
Krishna didn't go back to Srimati Radharani. So, from there He went back to
cowherd boys and he gave the jewel to Balarama. So, Balarama asked what
happened. Krishna said I got a little delayed  because I met a demon on the
way so I killed him and I got the jewel from him which was in his heart and
I wanted to give it to you. Actually that's why I got a little late. So,
another interesting demon Krishna killed was Aristasura. So, Aristasura was
a demon who came in the form of a bull and it was not an ordinary bull, it
was a huge bull whose head practically touched the sky and it was so
ferocious and started running all over Vrindavana and it started making
tremendous noise tremendous roaring sound and so everyone in Vrindavana
became very afraid. At that time Krishna was actually playing with the
Gopis. So, they were when Krishna saw that all his friends were so afraid.
So, Krishna immediately ran after, he approached the bull and the
description of Aristasura has been given that when he saw Krishna he started
to dig the ground, dig the earth with His hooves and Aristasura's hooves was
very sharp. So, Krishna came and within a very short time, Krishna killed
Aristasura. So, after killing Aristasura, Krishna went back to the Gopis.
The Gopis said "Krishna, we can't actually touch You or we can't deal with
You now because You are becoming contaminated by killing a cow. So, You have
committed a great sin by killing a cow. So, Krishna said that actually it
was in the form of a cow but actually it was not a cow, it was a demon. The
Gopis said "But still it has the form of a cow, so you got the son of
killing a cow". So, Krishna asked "So, now tell me what I should do now."
So, they said "That you will get purified by this sin only if you take bath
in all the holy places in this world." Then Krishna said 'No problem". So,
he hit the ground with his heel and a huge lake was created and all the holy
rivers appeared there. Different personalities they are also different
devotees of Krishna. So, they appeared there and started to offer prayers to
Krishna. And Krishna took His bath and said "now it's all right". The Gopis
became especially, Srimati Radharani became very embarrassed that they have
been defeated by Krishna. Now they have to match that. So, they said "Okay,
so we will also make a lake here and the Gopis with the bangles started to
dig a lake and the holy rivers appeared and started to offer prayers to
Srimati Radharani. So, what are these two places? So, the one Krishna makes
is Shyama-Kunda and the one that Gopis made?

Devotees [In unison]: Radha-Kunda
HHBCS: Right
So the Shyama-Kunda and Radha-Kunda was made right after Aristasura's
killing, right after killing of Aristasura. Then Krishna, Kamsa sent Kesi
the horse. Now, Kesi came in the form of a terrible horse and was charging
towards Krishna. But Krishna just put his hands in Kesi's mouth and killed
Kesi. It says that, in Brahma Vaivarta Purana, it has been described Krishna
actually put his hands right inside Kesi's stomach and pulled out all his
guts [HHBCS laughs]. And at that time Kesi took away his original form and
carried many, many cowherd boys and went up in the sky. So, Krishna also
jumped up in the sky grabbed Kesi and punched him to death. So, this is how
Kesi demon was killed. So, now these three personalities like Bhakasura,
Aghasura and Kesi were three brothers. So Pariksit Maharaj asked Sukdeva
Goswami how was it that these personalities were although they were demons
they got the good fortune of being killed by Krishna and got delivered. So,
then Sukdeva Goswami told Pariksit Maharaj that long time ago, there was a
Gandharva called Gandhavah and he has four sons. These four sons were all
great devotees of Vishnu. The eldest one was Vasudeva, then Suhatra,
Subhasha and Sudhasha. So, Vasudeva got, he became delivered by becoming a
pure devotee of the Lord. But this three other brothers, they were great
devotees of the Lord. They were such great devotees that they would not take
even a drop of water without worshipping the Supreme Personality of Godhead.
So, one day this three Gandharvas, actually there were three sons of
Gandharva King went to a lake and there they saw some beautiful scene, that
the lake was filled with beautiful lotuses but as soon as they went to see
the lotuses, many, many Yaksas came running and caught them. So, you thieves
you are stealing the lotuses from this lake so and they caught them and took
them to Lord Shiva and when they were taken to Lord Shiva. Lord Shiva asked
why you stole. So, they said actually we are devotees of Vishnu and took the
flowers for worshipping Vishnu we are looking for some flowers and when we
saw these lotuses we got tempted to take them and but Shiva said that
actually you made a great mistake, there is a curse by Parvati. This lake is
actually Parvati's lake. And there is a curse that if anybody takes the
flowers from this lake, then he will be born as a demon. So, although I
respect you very much as devotees of Vishnu and Vishnu's devotees should be
taken as Vishnu himself, Vishnu's devotees are expansion of Vishnu's
potency. So, I have great respect for you Vaishnavas but somehow or other
you have become victims of a curse. So, you will be born as demons. But
don't worry you will be delivered by the Supreme Personality of Godhead
himself. So, that's why, that's how these three Gandharvas appeared as these
three demons Bhakasura, Aghasura and Kesi. So, in this way we can also see
that Krishna's pastimes are like drama on a stage. Then Krishna recruits
different actors and actresses from different places and these are actually
simply Krishna's divine arrangement because although they are demons,
apparently they are demons but they are not ordinary personalities. They are
very, very special personalities and unless and until one is a very special
personality he cannot participate in Krishna's pastimes either as a devotee
or as a demon. Actually to be with Krishna means a lot of good fortune. So,
even though these personalities were participating in Krishna's pastimes as
demons but they were actually very fortunate. Ultimate issue they also were
great devotees of Krishna and although they were killed by Krishna but
finally they attained the ultimate destination, attained the ultimate
destination that is the spiritual sky. Now I will just add a little point
here after Krishna killed Kesi, Krishna was swinging the body of Kesi. And
ultimately when he let the body and Kesi go, it went flying through the sky
and it fell in Mathura and it fell right in front of Kamsa. [All laugh] and
so Kamsa couldn't figure out what happened but then he recognized that it is
the body of Kesi and Kesi was Kamsa's last support. So, Vasudeva who was
nearby, Vasudeva also was there in the court at that time. And when Vasudeva
realized that it was actually Kesi' body, Vasudeva smiled and Kamsa noticed
it, he started to chastise, he started to scream at Vasudeva saying that you
are my greatest enemy in disguise. I know that it is your son who you in a
tricky way you took him to Nanda Maharaj's house and kept him there. So, you
deceived him right after his birth. You didn't tell me that this was your
son and now you are happy that I am in trouble. So, you are laughing, he
called his man and said "Immediately, grab the head of Devaki and Vasudeva,
Vasudeva and Devaki and then they bluff to me. So, immediately Kamsa's
soldiers went and grabbed Vasudeva and Devaki. So, at that time Narada Mini
appeared there. So, Narada Muni told Kamsa "Kamsa! What is the use of just
killing Vasudeva and Devaki? Like this will not solve your problem. You may
feel happy for a time being that you killed Vasudeva and Devaki apparently
as your enemy. I told you before also, don't kill a woman because it's going
to be distressful for you but actually what you should try to do is to kill
Krishna. Why are you trying to kill Vasudeva and Devaki? How is it going to
solve your problem because Krishna would still continue to exist? So, your
problem won't be solved. So, try to solve your main problem. Kill Krishna
and I tell you if you send one or two persons to kill Krishna and Balarama,
you will never be successful. So, you have to make a joint endeavour to kill
Krishna and Balarama. So, I suggest what you do is you arrange for a Dhanur
Yagya- A sacrifice of great bows and you announce to all the kings to come
and participate in the sacrifice. Then you also invite Krishna and Balarama.
So, when Krishna and Balarama come here, then jointly you attack them with
all the kings. So that is how you will be able to kill them. Then Kansa
asked "But how should I, how should I encourage all the kings to come, how
should I inspire them to come. Then Narada said "You do one thing. You make
an announcement that in this Dhanur-Yajna whoever will be able to break the
bow, he will get half the kingdom. So, everyone will be interested to get
half the kingdom and so that's how they all will come and so this is how you
gather all the kings together and kill Krishna. So, Kamsa thought that's a
great idea. So, he arranged this Dhanur-Yajna. Dhanur means the bow and
Yajna means sacrifice and he sent Akrura to get Krishna and Balarama. Hare
Krishna. Does anyone have any questions or comments?

HHBCS: Yes
Devotee: I have a question. Generally Dhenu means cow. Kamadhenu ii..

HHBCS: No, that is Dhenu means a cow but Dhenuka is an ass.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Yes and that is the spiritual sky. Inconceivable. Right as the number
of the cows are unlimited, the space is also unlimited. The spiritual sky is
not limited.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Yes, that is what we are seeing with our mundane eyes is not the real
Vrindavana.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Or the other way to answer that question is that Krishna's potency is
inconceivable. Like Krishna can make tens of trillions of cows in a fraction
of a centimeter. That is how inconceivable Krishna's potency is. Yes.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Yes.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: You see, I mean all these literatures, all these scriptures are
eternal but they have been compiled by Vyasadeva for our benefit. You see
they are there but the writing version has been compiled by Vyasadeva.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: They are eternal. They are there all the time but people could not
understand. When they read before Caitanya Mahaprabhu's appearance they
didn't understand. Like for example if there is a book about Kalki who will
appear say four hundred and twenty five thousand years from now. So there
are descriptions of Kalki but you know we won't be interested because four
hundred and twenty five thousand years. Why we should talk now. So, those
who knew had access you see then again all the scriptures are available to
everybody. The scriptures that are also kept you see like those days there
were not printing presses. Things were just written by hand and just very
few individuals have in their custody. Some as you know were fortunate and
had access to them, access to read it and recognize Caitanya Mahaprabhu.
Yes. Hare Krishna.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: In the spiritual world yes in the spiritual world there is no demon.
There are two understandings because demons cannot actually enter into the
spiritual sky but the residents of Vrindavana actually they have some
impression of a demon. It's like seeing some paintings on a wall. You see
some paintings on the wall and some memories come back. So, it is something
like that, memories come back. Like for example you see Sanatana Goswami
describing Brhad Bhagvatam, when Gopa Kumar went back to Goloka Vrindavana,
he actually saw the Aristasura but better was the Kesi demon. He is
describing the Kesi. So, Krishna actually subdued the Kesi demon and put a,
took his garland and made a kind of reign out of that on the back of Kesi
demon and about all His friends also rode on the back of the Kesi demon. So,
now there are no demons in Vrindavana but we have to understand, Sanatana
Goswami is actually describing that you know devotees actually get the feel
of that pastime. So, the particular horse is not really Kesi or Kesi demon,
after his deliverance was promoted to Goloka Vrindavana and there he became
a devotee of Krishna. And for Krishna's pleasure he was actually playing
that role, playing that part but his mentality was not demoniac in that
sense. So, understanding is in the spiritual sky everyone is a devotee.
Sanatana Goswami describes about Kaliya but there Krishna did not banish
Kailya to go away but here also it says that Krishna actually put his
uttariya, his chadar around Kaliya's mouth and then He started to play his
flute and then He was riding on Kaliya's back. So, in this way in the
spiritual sky there is no demon but the acts are there. The way the demons
acted, those acts are enacted there also. Otherwise in the spiritual sky
also there won't be any excitement. So, this excitement is actually
generated by different arrangements of Krishna.

Devotee:iii.That's what happened.
HHBCS: That's right. Ultimately this pastime and but they do not have that
demoniac mentality as such. There they are not acting on behalf of Kamsa.
They are acting for the pleasure of Krishna.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: In most cases, the demons are the devotees or elevated personalities
who got cursed. They were cursed to become demons but then they got
delivered by Krishna. When they were delivered by Krishna, they were
promoted.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Generally, yes most of them, most of them I would say were Vrindavan
devotees. Like, it depends ultimately after the consciousness. For example
Putana, Putana got the position of Krishna's mother but Aghasura is said
that it merged into Krishna's body.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Dhenuka also was a Gandharva. He was a Gandharva. Let me see. What
did Dhenuka do? Dhenuka did something to Narada Muni and got cursed. He did
something and Narada Muni told him that since you acted like an assi
[All laughs]

Devotee: iii..
HHBCS: What's that? What's the next line?

Devotee:iii
HHBCS: They didn't want to become Yasoda, they didn't want to become like
Yasoda but they wanted to become they wanted to have Supreme Personality of
Godhead as Their son. You see there is a difference between trying to take
the place of Yasoda and wanting to become the mother of Krishna but wanting
to have the Supreme Lord as the son is another thing.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Yes

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Yes, they are not actually Sadhana Siddhas as such you see, they are
pure devotees. Ultimately they are pure devotees of Krishna who wanted to
have the darshan of the Lord but then the Lord fulfilled their desire by
saying not in this life but in another life, you will get me as your son.
So, that's why the Lord actually blessed them to become his father and
mother. Right. When they became the father and mother like it is an eternal
relationship like the relationship with the Lord is not, anything that is in
connection to the Lord is eternal. So once you become the father and the
mother of the Lord, it is an eternal relationship. It's not a kind of
relation broken by material time.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Yes, that can be, it can be understood that way also because by
Krishna's arrangement Nanda Maharaja and Yasoda in the next life they became
Nanda and Yasoda in Vrindavana. So, like it's like in the spiritual sky
different individuals are there. By Krishna's arrangement there they come to
the earth planet. At a particular time they again become the personalities
that they are there in the spiritual sky in the material world for example
like today Giriraj Maharaja just touched the point in the class. He was
talking about Ganga. In the spiritual sky there is Ganga. Actually what
happened is Krishna had another Gopi friend called Viraja. Viraja, one day
Krishna was with Viraja and the Goloka Vrindavan is like a thousand petals,
lotus and on each petal there is a house of one of Krishna's girlfriends.
So, Krishna was in Viraja, Viraja's house. Krishna made 12 friends guards,
12 gates of the house. At that time Maha Lakshmi Devi she started to look
for Krishna and then she turned there in Viraja's house. So, Viraja became
afraid that she will be caught now. So, she transformed herself into water
and so when Lakshmi Devi came she asked Krishna "What you are doing here?"
So, Krishna said "I was just waiting for you". So, Lakshmi Devi did not
believe at first and then she in her meditation she could understand what
actually happened. So she cursed Viraja that the water that you have
transformed yourselves into, you will remain as water. So then Viraja
actually came down as Yamuna being cursed by Radharani. Now you see like
this whatever happens on the earth planet in Krishna's pastimes. The
original of that, the root of that is actually in the spiritual sky Goloka
Vrindavana. Like we find that lots of curses are going flying around you and
so forth. Actually it was Krishna's arrangement to send his associates down
like Radharani cursed Srinath, Subala and you know like I mean as there it
was saying that curses were flying you know in all directions and then they
as a result ultimately it is all Krishna's arrangement they came down like
that. So here we can also understand from this statement of Srila Prabhupada
that Yasoda and Nanda came on to the earth planet but before appearing as
Nanda and Yasoda they all appeared as Krishna's associates.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: No, they are not given that.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: But sometimes it happens jivas get elevated and enter into Krishna's
pastimes. Like for example let us consider ourselves we are jives, now does
it means that we will never be able to go back to Godhead. Now when is now
when we go back, jivas can also go back to Krishna's eternal spiritual sky

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Not Nanda and Yasoda in that sense but a jiva himself never thinks
that he can become Nanda and Yasoda but if Krishna wants Krishna can offer
that position to some jiva if he wants.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: You see there is a difference between us wanting something and
Krishna is offering something. For example the Gopis do want to associate
with Krishna and want that Krishna should always be with Radharani and try
to make that arrangement but sometimes if Krishna wants, then the Gopis go
with Krishna and have an intimate pastimes.

Devotee" Inaudible
HHBCS: Krishna can make anything. Krishna can do everything. Nanda and
Yasoda they are Krishna's eternal father and mother. That is the position. I
mean their position is fixed but when Krishna performed the pastime on the
earth planet he if you want he may make some living entity take up that
role, may allow some living entity to play that role. But ultimately we will
find there is some link between that living entity, that individual and the
original Personality in the spiritual sky just as we can see here like
Yasoda and Nanda has some link with Drona and Dhara. But when we see Drona
and Dhara as Vasu, then they are not Nanda and Yasoda as Vasu. Right but
they you know although they have some ultimate link with Nanda and Yasoda.
So, another way of looking at it is when Drona and Dhara were playing their
pastimes right on heavenly planets as Vasu. No. so, they were there at the
same time they are here as well. So, this is how inconceivable it is. Drona
and Dhara we see as two demigods but when they get the position of Nanda and
Yasoda then we cannot really reason how is it happening. So, the best is to
leave it as Krishna's arrangement. Why it happens? How it happens. It's not
up to us. I will take this last question because I am already late.

Devotee: Inaudible
HHBCS: Yes. This understanding is, you see Krishna, all the incarnations of
Krishna also appear. So, when Krishna goes to Mathura, then original Krishna
of Vrindavana stays back in Vrindavana. But actually it is the Vasudeva
Krishna Who actually goes to Mathura. And it has been described as when
Krishna went to take the bath near the border of Mathura and Vrindavana.
When they were just about to cross the border of Vrindavana, Krishna took
bath in, Krishna and Balarama took bath in Yamuna. So, at that time Akrura
saw Krishna and Balarama in the four armed form. So, the understanding is
when they were taking bath when they got out of the chariot to take bath. At
that time Vrindavana Krishna and Balarama went back to Vrindavana and it is
the Vasudeva Krishna Who actually got into the chariot and Akrura took
Vasudeva Krishna and Sankarshan to Mathura. But original Krishna and Balrama
did not leave. Other questions that you have please write down and I will
answer them tomorrow Hare Krishna. Oh! You have some cookies.

Devotee: Maharaja
HHBCS: You can take some. Hare Krishna.
