Dear Krsna Bhakta Prabhu,
Please accept my humble obeisances.
All glories to Srila Prabhupada.
I am very sorry for unable to attend the very auspicious vyasa puja
celebration of maharaj.
Please send this offering to maharaj.
If you like please read out this offering.
Your servant
Bhakti Prema Swami

Dear Lokanath Swami Maharaja,

Please accept my most humble obeisances unto the dust of your divine lotus
feet on this very auspiciius day of your appearance.

All glories to Srila Prabhupada.

All glories to Your Holiness.

I had a great desire to attend this very auspicious program. I pray to you
so that I can attend next year.
After giving you the Sannyasa initiation at just the age of 26 years, Srila
Prabhupada told you:-

“man-mana bhava mad-bhakto mad-yaji mam namaskuru"-Krishna is asking us to
do four things, if we just do these four things: remembering Krishna,
worshipping Him, offering Him obeisances, and becoming His devotee without
duplicity, then your preaching will be very effective and people will take
you very seriously.”

Maharaja, Your Holiness have really taken Srila Prabhupada’s instruction
fully to your heart, and thus your preaching is so emphatically successful
all over the world. And by your pure association, people all over the world
are taking Srila Prabhupada’s message so seriously. Not only that, you have
also empowered many souls to follow this sublime teaching, and thus they
are also very effectively preaching under your expert guidance.

Srila Prabhupada ordered Your Holiness to preach Lord Caitanya’s message by
organising Bullock Cart Sankirtan Party. The first such journey was from
Vrindavan to Mayapur. When your party reached Mayapur, Srila Prabhupada was
so excited to see you that His Divine Grace was asking in detail about each
and every town you visited from Allahabad to Mayapur. This shows how much
importance Srila Prabhupada gave to your preaching efforts.

Your tireless preaching spirit is most inspiring. When you were the ISKCON
minister for Srila Prabhupada Centennial Celebration, there was record
breaking book distribution and prasadam distribution.

Maharaja, your lectures and kirtans are so deep and enchanting that the
devotees all over the world are always very eager to get a chance to hear
from you. Pure Krishna-katha flows like nectar from your lotus mouth and
enchants the bee-like hearts of devotees. Being a pure representative of
Srila Prabhupada, you are endowed with so many transcendental qualities.

Maharaja, I have recently received sannyasa from your very dear god-brother
HH Bhakti Charu Swami Maharaja. However, I feel myself very much
unqualified. I, therefore, earnestly beg for your mercy, on this most
auspicious day of your appearance, that I may be able to give little
pleasure to Srila Prabhupada by following in the footsteps of his most
beloved servants like Your Holiness.
Sanskrit uccaranam book written by you is one of my very favourite book. It
has given me a lot of things for my spirithal advancement. You have
mercifully ordered me to teach from that book. Please shower your causeless
mercy so that I can fulfill your desire.

Thank you very much Maharaja.

Your humble servant,

Bhakti Prema Swami(Ganganarayan Das)
Ujjain



--
Aspiring to be your servant
Jagatjivan das(BCS)
